Which of the following is the best prediction of how the new disease will affect the two populations?
the smaller population will be more affected than will the larger population, because the smaller population is has less genetic variation than the larger population has

Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells. Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?
an ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells

based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle cell anemia?
a single base pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit

Which of the following best predicts the consequence of the introduction of C. taifolia to the California coast?
without natural herbivores or competitors, C. taxifolia will grow rapidly and crowd out native species of producers

the graph above represents the number of individuals in a population of wolves and in a population of moose observed in the same isolated geographic area over a 40 year period, from 1955 through 1995. Which of the following statements about the two populations is best supported by the information presented in the graph?
the wolves were predators of the moose, which were otherwise reproductively successful
Pacific Salmon and black bears - which of the following statements is best supported by the data?
the presence of black bears and salmon correlates with a significat increase in nitrogen influx
which of the following most likely describes how the interaction between bears and salmon influences nitrogen dynamics in the environment
when bears sonsume salmon, the leave parts of the carcasses on the ground, which decompose, releasing nitrogen into the environment
which of the following pieces of additional data would help further investigate the relationship between bears, salmon, and influx of nitrogen into the local environment
the experiment should remove the remains of salmon carcasses immediately after the salmon are eaten by the bears and determine the nitrogen content of the carcases
if a dam is built downstream and prevents salmon migration to the test sites, which of the following most accurately predicts the impact of nitrogen influx?
Nitrogen influx will decrease because there will be less bear-salmon interaction
as depicted in the diagram, honeybees communicate the location of flower patches to members of their hives with waggle dances that give information about the direction and distance to the flowers. Which of the following statements about how honeybees communicate the position of flower pathces is most consistent with the model?
the father the target flowers from the hive, the longer the waggle phase
which of the following represents a cross between a white eyed female and a red eyed male
Rr X^tX^t x Rr X^TY
which of the follwing is the most likely mechanism by which the S. pyogenes acquired the ability to produce the exotoxins?
bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome
Based on the model of speciation presented, which of the following describes the most likely consequence to the populations over time?
hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to subsequent generations
which of the following best describes the reason for excluding hybrid males when calculation the allele frequencies for two interbreeding populations at the intermediate stage of speciation (figure 2)?
sterile individuals make no genetic contribution to the next generation
in a separate investigation, individual mice from two populations that in nature are geographically isolated from each other are mated in the laboratory. The hybrid offspring were then mated with individuals from either of the original populations. Only the female hybrid offspring were fertile. The experimental results are most consistent. The experimental results are most consistent with which of the stages that are depicted in the model?
Intermediate stage (figure 2)
Using the model of speciation and applying it to a different population, which of the following outcomes is most consistent for a different species in which the males are homogametic and the females arre heterogametic
behavioral isolation would occur sooner in species exhibiting nonrandom mating
a scientist is caluating a proposal for raising large numbers of fish in ocean pes for human consumption. which of the following is the most appropriate factor to use as the dependent variable in the experimental investigation.
the amount of metabolic wastes in the water where the fish are being raised
epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. which of the following describes the initials steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
epinephrine binds to a cell surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messengers, cAMP
which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to the model represented in the figure above? Cytosol and Extracellular Fluid
which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane?
The students concluded that pea plants grew better in compost than did melon plants. Which of the following best addresses the balidity of the conclusion made by the students?
the conclusion is invalid because other variables in the experiment (both biotic and abiotic) affected the results
Within the same population, some individual butterflies fly most effectively at 29 degrees C, while others fly most effectively at 40 degrees C, Still other can be equally active at bother temperatures. Which of the following claims is most consistent with the observed butterfly behavior?
butterflies that express two variants of the enzyme are active over a greater range of temperature
which of the following statements best justifies the claim that the conditions in at least one of the experiments could generate the moecular building blocks essential for life?
the nitrogen (N2) gas and ammonia (NH3) gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids.
The cladogram shown below depicts an accepted model of the evolutionary relationships among selected species. (horse, gorilla, human, chimpanzee)
argine to leucine at position X on the cladogram
Which of the following best describes the reproductive ability of C elegans following the ARD induced in the first experiment?
Mating with a well fed male consistently produced more offspring than did reproduction via self fertilization
The average brood size per mated individual upon reintroduction of food following 30 days of ARD is closest to which of the following.
50
which of the following conclusions is most consistent with the data shown in Figure 2?
the number of days an animal spends in ARD does not significantly affect its time of survival after reintroduction of food
Based on the experimental results, which of the following is the best ecolutionary explanation for the occurrence of ARD in C. elegans
the ability to enter ARD provides a strong selective advantage because reproduction can occur despite periods of food scarcity
Signaling diagram for steroid hormones - based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to the DNA
The pedigree below shows the inheritance of a dominant allele of a gene in a family over several generations. The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mitochondrial DNA because
maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring
High blood cholesterol a man with high cholesterol levels is about to marry a woman whose total cholesterol levels are also higher than average. A physician has suggested they get tested for the HC allele. Which of the following ia a valid ethic question concerning the test?
if both have the allele for HC, should an insurance company raise their rates because of the results of the test?
The hydrolytic enzymes are mosty likely to accumulate in which of the following cellular structures?
Golgi complex
The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA damage?
phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the resulting p21 protein supresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired
which of the following graphs is the most appropriate representation of the experimental results documented in the table?
the bar graph
which of the following observations provides the best evidence that photosynthesis occurred in treatment group 1?
the mean pH of the samples increase after one hour
to investigate whether an organism in the study is capable of both phototsynthesis and respiration, a comparison of which treatment groups is most appropriate?
I and II
the results for treatment groups V and VI could suggest which of the following questions about the design of the experiment?
IV and VI
which of the following modifications to the experimental design design will best help reduce the standard errors of the means?
increasing the sample size of each treatment group
DIVIDING CELL AND CONTACT INHIBITION - which of the following statements accurately uses the information presented to support the hypothesis that interruption of M function in a single body cell can result in cancer
growth factor signaling can trigger mitosis in cells that are in direct contact with other cells
In drosophila melanogaster the allele for wild type tan body color (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for black body color (b). Similarly, the allele for wild type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing phenotype (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the exp[ected and observed results are shown. Which of the follwoing best explains the observed results of the cross?
the genes for body color and wing shape eare located close to each other on the same chromosome
Which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteolytic enzymes are evolutionarily conserved among species?
if a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a presursor protein from another species, does correct cleavage occur?
Transmission of an action potential across a synapse involves the release of neurotransmitter by the presynaptic neuron. Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ion best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
Ca++ --> <-- Na+ --> K+
the table below provides a comparison of nitrogenous waste production in selected organisms . WHich of the followingstatements is most consistent with the data in the table?
the kidneys of reptiles and birds are highly efficient because little water is need to excrete uric acid
based in the model, which of the following best explains why a bright green fluorescences was observed following stimulation of a presynaptic neuron?
GRP* contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis
which of the following best explains why GFP* might exhibit a bright green fluorescence in alkalin conditions but not in acidic conditions?
addition of an H+ to GFP* at acidic pH changes the shape of the protein, preventing fluorescence
which of the following obsercations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movemnet of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism by which CDK5 regulates neurotrasmitter release?
CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane
previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35. Which of the following best predics how p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function?
degradation of p35 results in increased synaptic activity
based on the model, which of the following best explains how regulation of neurotransmitter release might increase the range of response to a stimulus in the nervous system?
different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitter
In a species of cactus, the number of spines on a plant is genetically determined. The graph above shows frequency distributions for populations of the cactus species growing in the presence or absence of two herbivores: peccaries (a New World pig) and wasp larvae. Which of the following best accounts for the different frequency distributions in the graph?
Peccaries eat cacti with a smaller number of spines, and wasp larvae eat cacti with a greater number of spines
If the two finch popultations are each in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium and are isolated from each other, then which of the following graphs correctly displays the relative genotype frequencies?
LL (0.2) Ll (0.5) ll (0.3)
based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon
met-val-thr-lys-phe-gly-his
The data above represents the results of three different crosses involving the inheritance of a gene that determines whether a certain organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
the allele for blue is an X linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2
the table shows the change in allele frequencies of a specific gene in two populations of randomly mating small mammals after 30 years. The populations in habit adjacent equatorial islands that have similar topography and climate. Which of the following is the most reliable conclusion that can be drawn from analysis of the data above?
genetic drift has occurred in population 1
The dilution of ammonia by direct excretion into freshwater conserves energy
In most freshwater fish, nitrogenous waste is primarily excreted as ammonia, which is highly soluble in water and is toxic at low concentrations. In terrestrial mammals, ammonia is converted to urea before it is excreted. Urea is also highly soluble in water but is less toxic than ammonia at low concentrations. Which of the following best explains why freshwater fish do not convert ammonia to urea for excretion?
The action potential causes a release of neurotransmitters that travel across the synapse.
When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the skin, an action potential is propagated along a neuron to the brain, where another signal is sent back to the muscle for a response. Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon?
option 4
Information is transmitted through the nervous system when one neuron signals another neuron. The structure of neurons enables transmission to proceed quickly and efficiently. Which of the following diagrams correctly identifies both the structure of neurons and the direction of information flow between neurons
A decrease in action potentials in the muscle, causing muscle weakness and fatigue
The illustration above depicts a neuromuscular junction of a patient with an autoimmune disorder. Acetylcholine is a stimulatory neurotransmitter. Which of the following would be the most likely result of the continued presence of the antibody?
Ammonia secretion requires a large volume of water and was therefore selected against in terrestrial vertebrates
The table above shows the types and properties of nitrogen-containing wastes produced by several vertebrates. Which of the following is the best explanation of the data?
Increasing the osmolarity at this point allows water to be reabsorbed passively through osmosis from the descending loop
Nephrons in the kidneys consist of tubules that are selectively permeable to solutes and water in different regions of the nephron. One region of a nephron, called the Loop of Henle, dips from the outer portion of the kidney, the cortex, to the center, the medulla. The Loop of Henle is depicted by the yellow tube in the diagram below. Capillaries, the red tube in the image, run countercurrent to the tubules. The descending portion of the nephron tubule is highly permeable to water and impermeable to ions, while the ascending loop is impermeable to water. As the filtrate travels up the ascending loop, transport proteins in the cells of the tubules actively pump Na+ into the blood vessels. What is the likely advantage of expending this energy to actively pump these ions back into the blood at this point in the loop?
It speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator.
Which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in maintaining homeostasis in mammals. ADH is released from the hypothalamus in response to high tissue osmolarity. In response to ADH, the collecting duct and distal tubule in the kidney become more permeable to water, which increases water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount of hormone released is controlled by a negative feedback loop.Based on the model presented, which of the following statements expresses the proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
a
Transmission of an action potential across a synapse involves the release of neurotransmitters by the presynaptic neuron. The arrival of the action potential triggers a rise in the calcium concentration in the synaptic terminal, and the change in concentration triggers a release of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft. Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ions best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
The person's finger will not withdraw reflexively.
The diagram above depicts the response to a pinprick (stimulus) on the tip of a human finger. The arrows show the direction of impulse transmission along the labeled axons. If axon II was damaged before the pinprick, which of the following is most likely?
The insecticide caused continuous stimulation of the muscles
Why did the insecticide cause uncontrollable twitching in the roaches?
The mechanism of stimulating skeletal muscle contraction must be similar in humans and roaches
Since pesticides affect humans in a manner similar to that of roaches, it would be valid to conclude that
If the s phase were eliminated from the cell cycle, daughter cells would
Have half the genetic material found in the parent cell
Which of the following statements regarding the cell cycle is false
The cell cycle control system operated independently of the growth factors
Which observation suggested to Sutherland the involvement of a second messenger in epinephrines effect on liver cells
Glycogen breakdown was observed only when epinephrine was administered to intact cells
What is a G protein
A protein on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane that becomes activated by receptor protein
Which of the following can activate a protein by transferring a phosphate group to it
Protein kinase
Which of the following best describes a drug interaction that directly interferes with a signal transduction pathway
Medication enters the target sell and inhibits in enzyme that normally synthesizes a second messenger
Name three events that occur in Meosis but not mitosis
The pairing of homologous chromosomes, The separating of homologous chromosomes, crossing over
Identify three sources of genetic variation that occur in sexual life cycles
Independent assortment crossing over random fertilization
If the pH of the solution is decreased from 7 to 6 in means that
H plus has increased 10 times what it was at pH 7
Hydrolysis is involved in which of the following
The digestion of sucrose a disaccharide to its monomer of glucose and fructose
If the dipeptide from the previous question were to be digested how would it be reduced to amino acids
Through a hydrolysis reaction in which water is adding
What is the role of sulfuric acid in this experiment
It teenagers the enzyme by altering the active site
The result of Miller's experimentsBest support which of the following hypothesis
The molecules essential to life today could not have formed under early Earth conditions
Such a mutation would most likely result in altered
Properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules
Which of the following organelles would be an abundance of the
Lysosomes
Which of the following summarizes the pathway for insulin through a pancreatic cell
Rough ER to the Golgi to the vesicle to the plasma membrane
Which of the following cube shaped cells would be most efficient in removing waste by diffusion
10
Which of the following best summarizes in advantage of eukaryotic cells having internal membranes
Organelles isolate specific reactions increasing the tablet deficiency
Which of those would describe the movement of water
The net for water would be from the tissue into the sucrose solution
How do enzymes increase the rate of chemical reaction
By lowering the activation energy of a reaction
Describes a process by which enzymes function at the active site may either be activated or inhibited by the binding of a regulatory molecule at a separate site
Allosteric interactions
A molecule that is so similar to the normal substrate that competes for the active site of the enzyme
Competitive inhibition
The process by which a metabolite pathway is shut off by the product it produces
Feedback inhibition
A molecule that binds to the enzyme at a site other than the Active site causing the enzyme to change shape and be unable to bind substrate
Noncompetitive inhibitor
The process by which a glucose is split into pyruvate producing two ATP and 2 NADP H
Glycolysis
A process by which glucoses split to produce two ATP in lactic acid
Fermentation
The main product of light reactions of photosynthesis are
NADP H and ATP
Major product of the Calvin cycle is
I G3 P
Catabolic and anabolic pathways are often couple in a cell
Because the free energy from one pathway is used to drive the other pathway
Glycolysis releases free energy held in the bonds of glucose in this energy is held in these molecules
ATP,NADPH, PYRUVATE
Many signal transduction pathways use second messengers to
Relay the message from the inside of the membrane throughout the cytoplasm
Which of the following signal molecules pass through the plasma membrane and bind to intracellular receptors that move into the nucleus and function as transcription factors to regulate gene expression
Testosterone, a steroid hormone
Which of the following is correct
Nuclear division occurs once in mitosis and twice in meosis
Which of the following is the best description of the role of allactose
It regulates expression of gene for b galactosidase
Which of the following is the best explanation for how steroid hormones are unable to pass through the plasma membrane
Steroid hormones are nonpolar lipids, and the cell membrane is lipid base
The lac operon question
diagram with the enzyme floating with the lactose connected
Based on the data in figure 1, the concentration of iron in the control diet used in the investigation is most likely within which of the following ranges?

a. 20-25 mg/kg
b. 35-40 mg/kg
c. 70-75 mg/kg
d. 100-125 mg/kg
b. 35-40 mg/kg
Which of the following conclusions about dietary iron and ferritin synthesis is best supported by the data in figure 1?

a. a dietary iron concentration of 25mg/kg has no effect on ferritin gene expression compared with the control diet
b. at a dietary iron concentration of 50mg/kg, rats make twice as much ferritin as rats fed the control diet do
c. maximum activation of ferritin synthesis occurs at dietary iron concentrations of 75mg/kg or greater
d. the maximum rate of ferritin absorption from the gut occurs at dietary iron concentrations greater than 75mg/kg
c. maximum activation of ferritin synthesis occurs at dietary iron concentrations of 75mg/kg or greater
Based on the model of ferritin synthesis presented in figure 2, which of the following best describes the mechanism whereby iron most likely regulates ferritin production?

a. translation occurs under low intracellular iron concentration when the IRP recruits ribosomes to the ferritin mRNA
b. translation occurs under low intracellular iron concentration when the IRP stabilizes the stem-loop structure in the ferritin mRNA
c. translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentrations when the IRP complex dissociates from ferritin mRNA, permitting ribosomes access to the ferritin coding region
d. translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentration when the IRP complex brings the 5' end of the closer to the ferritin coding region
c. translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentrations when the IRP complex dissociates from ferritin mRNA, permitting ribosomes access to the ferritin coding region
Based on the model of ferritin synthesis presented in figure 2, which of the following describes the role of feedback on the control of intracellular iron levels?

a. a decrease in iron levels activates the IRP. The IRP in turn activates iron transport proteins in the cell membrane, thereby returning free iron levels to normal
b. a decrease in iron levels activates synthesis of the ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn releases bound iron, thereby returning free iron levels to normal
c. an increase in iron levels activates the IRP. The IRP in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.
d. an increase in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.
d. an increase in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis
After a search of nucleotide sequence databases, researchers identified an IRE in the 5' untranslated region of a gene encoding aconitase, an enzyme involved in the Krebs cycle. Which of the following pieces of experimental evidence best supports the claim that the synthesis of aconitase is controlled by a mechanism similar to ferritin regulation?

a. IRP binds to the aconitase mRNA in the presence of iron
b. the relative amount of aconitase protein increases in the presence of high levels of iron
c. oxygen consumption by cells increases in the presence of high levels of iron
d. the levels of reduced electron carriers, NADH FADH2 increase in the presence of high levels of iron
b. the relative amount of aconitase protein increases in the presence of high levels of iron
Retroviruses have an RNA genome. HTLV-1 is a lysogenic retrovirus that establishes a latent infection in human cells. By which of the following mechanisms does infection by a retrovirus such as HTLV-1 most likely cause long-lasting genetic changes to host cells?

a. the host-cell ribosomes translate the viral RNA genome that enters the cell upon initial viral infection
b. the viral RNA polymerase that transcribes host genes has a high error rate
c. the RNA viral genome is reverse transcribed into DNA that integrates into the host genome
d. the RNA viral genome integrates into the host genome
c. the RNA viral genome is reverse transcribed into DNA that integrates into the host genome
Which of the following is most likely to create genetic variation in a population?

a. RNA polymerase errors during replication
b. Helicase failure to unwind DNA during DNA replication
c. DNA polymerase errors during replication
d. Misincorporation of amino acids by tRNA during translation
c. DNA polymerase errors during replication
Which of the following statements best explains how protein X regulates gene expression?

a. Protein X is responsible for processing pre-mRNA
b. Protein X is responsible for activating transcription of some genes but not others
c. Protein X is a member of some cytoplasmic protein complexes but not others
d. Protein X causes specific base-pair changes to produce new alleles
b. Protein X is responsible for activating transcription of some genes but not others
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?

a. Expression of the structural genes will be repressed, even in the presence of lactose
b. beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose
c. RNA polymerase will attach to the pLAC locus, but transcription will be blocked
d. the operator locus will code for a different protein and thereby prevent transcription of the structural gene
b. beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?

a. the breakdown products of lactose block cell division
b. diffusion of lactose across the plasma membrane would stop in the presence of lactose
c. expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted
d. binding of DNA by the repressor would increase in the presence of lactose
c. expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?

a. expression of the lac1 gene
b. RNA polymerase is rapidly degraded by the product of the lacP locus
c. the repressor binds to the DNA only when the cellular concentration of glucose is low
d. the lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available
d. the lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?

a. bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light
b. beta-galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light
c. ultraviolet light will cause a bond to form between glucose and galactose monomers
d. ultraviolet light will cause a duplication of the lac operon
a. bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light
Plate IV shows bioluminescent bacteria but less overall growth than plate III. This is because

a. bacteria on plate IV can only express genes for bioluminescense
b. bacteria on the plate III were given additional nutrients and optimal growing conditions
c. only the bacteria on plate III can express genes for antibiotic resistance
d. bacteria on plate IV is expressing genes for both bioluminescence and antibiotic resistance
d. bacteria on plate IV is expressing genes for both bioluminescence and antibiotic resistance
Plate II shows no bacterial growth because

a. the bacteria added to this plate failed to express the genes for antibiotic resistance
b. the bacteria added to this plate did not express genes for bioluminescence
c. the bacteria added to this plate were resistant to the antibiotic
d. the bacteria added to this plate were not transformed and therefore lack antibiotic resistance
d. the bacteria added to this plate were not transformed and therefore lack antibiotic resistance
In a second experiment, the plasmid contained the gene for a viral protein as well as the ampr gene. Which of the following plates would have the highest percentage of bacteria that are expected to express the gene for this viral protein?

a. III only
b. I only
c. I and III
d. IV only
a. III only
Which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?

a. a new RNA molecule is synthesized using a DNA template
b. a new polypeptide is synthesized using an RNA template
c. thymine nucleotides in an RNA molecule are replaced with uracil nucleotides
d. noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule
d. noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule
In the process of tyrptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon. The trpR regulatory gene responsible for producing the repressor protein is

a. a significant component of the trp operon
b. is only expressed in the presence of the trpR mRNA
c. not considered to be a part of the trp operon
d. according to the image, not being expressed
c. not considered to be a part of the trp operon
Which of the following statements correctly describes the function of a signal peptide?

a. it directs an mRNA molecule into the golgi apparatus
b. it causes RNA polymerase to bind DNA and initiate transcription
c. it terminates translation of the messenger RNA
d. it assists in the translocation of polypeptides across the ER membrane
d. it assists in the translocation of polypeptides across the ER membrane
Which of the following is not true of RNA processing?

a. exons are cut out before mRNA leaves the nucleus
b. nucleotides may be added at both ends of the RNA
c. ribozymes may function in RNA splicing
d. RNA splicing can be catalyzed by spliceosomes
a. exons are cut out before mRNA leaves the nucleus
Which of the following is a protein product of a regulatory gene?

a. operon
b. inducer
c. promoter
d. repressor
d. repressor
What would be the result of a mutation that deactivates the regulatory gene of a repressible operon in an Escherichia coli cell?

a. continuous transcription of the structural gene controlled by that regulator
b. complete inhibition of transcription of the structural gene controlled by that regulator
c. irreversible binding of the repressor to the operator
d. inactivation of RNA polymerase by alteration of its active site
a. continuous transcription of the structural gene controlled by that regulator
In response to chemical signals, prokaryotes can carry out which of the following activities?

a. turn of translation of their mRNA
b. alter the level of production of various enzymes
c. increase the number and responsiveness of their ribosomes
d. inactivate their mRNA molecules
b. alter the level of production of various enzymes
a type of mutation in the repressor results in a molecule known as a super-repressor because it represses the lac operon permanently. Which of these would characterize such a mutant?

a. it cannot bind to the operator
b. it cannot make a functional repressor
c. it cannot bind to the inducer
d. it makes molecules that bind to one another
c. it cannot bind to the inducer
In eukaryotes, general transcription factors

a. are required for the expression of specific protein-encoding genes
b. bind to other proteins or to a sequence element within the promoter called the TATA box
c. inhibit RNA polymerase binding to the promoter and begin transcribing
d. usually lead to a high level of transcription even without additional specific transcription factors
a. are required for the expression of specific protein-encoding genes
Which of the following is an example of positive feedback
c. An infant's suckling at the mother's breast increases the amount of the hormone that induces the release of milk from the mammary glands
Which of the following is a false statement about innate immunity?
c. They must be primed by the presence of a specific antigen
Frequently, very few molecules of a hormone are required to affect changes in a target cell. This is because
c. the mechanism of hormonal action involves an transduction pathway that amplifies the response to a hormone.
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
b. After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
Which of the following statements about antibodies is false?
b. Antibodies bind with foreign cells and lyse them
An individual's humoral response to a particular antigen differs depending on whether or not the individual has been previously exposed to that antigen. Which of the following graphs properly represents the humoral immune response when an individual is exposed to the same antigen more than once?
a. ( 2 bumps, one small and one big)
Which statement best describes the difference in responses of effector B cells (plasma cells) and cytotoxic T cells?
c. B cells secrete antibodies against a pathogen; cytotoxic T cells kill pathogen-infected host cells.
The diagram below illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
d. A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion
The graph below shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data
c. A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released.
A pathogenic bacterium has been engulfed by a phagocytic cell as part of the nonspecific (innate) immune response. Which of the following illustrations best represents the response?
c. ( two black circles)
The vertebrate immune system consists of multiple types of cells that work together to protect the body from infections as well as from damaged cells. In the immune response represented above, antibodies are synthesized and secreted into the blood and the lymph. The diagram shows the interaction of macrophages, B cells, and helper T cells. Which of the following correctly labels the cells depicted in the diagram?
c.
The model shown in the figure represents the role of two hormones, calcitonin and parathyroid hormone, in maintaining normal blood calcium levels in humans. If a dietary change results in an increase in blood calcium concentration above normal levels, which of the following is the most likely effect on calcium homeostasis?
b. Calcitonin levels will rise, thus promoting the deposit of calcium into bones.
As represented in the model, B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens or stimulated by helper T cells (TH). Based on the model, which of the following best describes an outcome of B cell activation?
a. Activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells.
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
a. Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP.
Steroid hormones, such as testosterone, pass through the plasma membrane and bind to an intracellular protein, as shown in the diagram below. The hormone-receptor complex then enters the nucleus, where it interacts with DNA to promote transcription of a specific gene. Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
d. Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA
Which structure in the image represents the receptor for a water-soluble hormone?
b.
The first vaccination provides immunity because
c. Antigenic determinants in the vaccine activate B cells, which form plasma cells as well as memory cells
The second vaccination is beneficial because
b. It stimulates production of a higher concentration of antibodies in the bloodstream
Precise regulation of specific hormone levels is required for optimal sperm production in mammals, as summarized in the figure above. Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) are synthetic variants of testosterone that are sometimes abused by persons who desire to enhance their athletic performance or alter their physique. Assuming that AAS function in the same way as naturally occurring testosterone, it is most likely that long-term abuse of AAS would
reduce sperm production
Which of the following best describes the effect of a greater number of cysteine amino acids on the stability of the proteins?
B) The change leads to increased protein stability because of an increased number of bonds in the tertiary structure of the proteins.
For this pair of items, choose the option that best describes their relationship.
(A) The probability that amino acids with polar side chains are hydrophobic.
(B) The probability that fatty acids are hydrophobic.
A) Item (A) is less than item (B).
Which of the following is not a polymer?
D) glucose
Which of the following statements best supports the claim that organisms share fundamental processes as a result of evolution?
C) All organisms share a genetic code organized into triplet codons, making it possible for one organism to express a gene from another organism.
6. The structure depicted above shows the
C) α helix secondary structure of a polypeptide.
How does water act in most solutions?
B) It is a universal solvent, dissolving mostly ionic or polar covalent substances
A group of molecular biologists is trying to synthesize a new artificial compound to mimic the effects of a known hormone that influences sexual behavior. They have turned to you for advice. Which of the following compounds is most likely to mimic the effects of the hormone?
C) a compound with the same three-dimensional shape as part of the hormone
Ice floats because:
D) the distance between the water molecules increases as water freezes.
Which functional group is not present in this molecule?
B) sulfhydryl
Differences among organisms are caused by
B) differences in the types and relative amounts of organic molecules synthesized by each organism.
. Why are hydrocarbons insoluble in water?
B) The majority of their bonds are nonpolar covalent carbon-to-hydrogen linkages.
A new organism is discovered in the forests of Costa Rica. Scientists there determine that the polypeptide sequence of hemoglobin from the new organism has 72 amino acid differences from humans, 65 differences from a gibbon, 49 differences from a rat, and 5 differences from a frog. These data suggest that the new organism
B) is more closely related to frogs than to humans.
Polypeptides are continuously being formed and degraded. One of these processes is
shown.
D) It represents a polypeptide chain that is broken down through a hydrolysis reaction.
. Figure 1 is a diagram of water molecules at the air-water interface at the surface of a pond.

Figure 1. Alignment of water molecules at air-water interface
Based on Figure 1, which of the following best describes how the properties of water at an air-water interface enable an insect to walk on the water's surface?
D) Hydrogen bonds between molecules at the surface of the water provide surface tension, which allows the water surface to deform but not break under the insect.
. Given the following formula for glucose (C6H12O6) calculate the formula for a tetrasaccharide containing four glucose moleules.
D) C24H42O21
Which of the following best describes how amino acids affect the tertiary structure of a
protein?
B) The interactions of the different R-groups with other R-groups and with their environment determine the tertiary structure of the protein.
Both myoglobin and hemoglobin are proteins that bind reversibly with molecular oxygen. The graph below shows the oxygen-binding saturation of each protein at different concentrations of oxygen.


Which of the following statements is correct?
C) At 40 mm Hg partial pressure, myoglobin has a greater affinity for oxygen than hemoglobin has.
Besides carbon, the four elements most commonly found in matter are:
C) hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and phosphorous.
A carbon atom is most likely to form what kind of bond(s) with other atoms?
C) covalent
A cell is treated with a drug that prevents the formation of new lysosomes. The cell continues to transcribe the genes that code for the hydrolytic enzymes that are normally found in lysosomes and continues to translate the mRNAs for those proteins on membrane-bound ribosomes. Where are those enzymes likely to accumulate in the cell?
D) Golgi Complex
Which of the following depicts the most probable pathway of processing and packaging a secretory protein within a eukaryotic cell?
B) Rough endoplasmic reticulum → Golgi body → secretory vesicles → cell membrane
Membrane-bound organelles have been an important component in the evolution of complex, multicellular organisms. Which of the following best summarizes an advantage of eukaryotic cells having internal membranes?
C) Organelles isolate specific reactions, increasing metabolic efficiency.
For the following questions, match the labeled component of the cell membrane with its description.
Peripheral Protein- D
In order for a protein to be a transmembrane protein it would have to be classified as which of the following?
C) amphipathic
The presence of cholesterol in the plasma membranes of some animals
A) enables the membrane to stay fluid more easily when cell temperature drops.
What would be true for the signaling system in an animal cell that lacks the ability to produce GTP?
A) It would not be able to activate and inactivate the G protein on the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membrane.
Which of the following describes cell communication systems?
D) In response to a signal, the cell may alter activities by changes in cytosol activity or in transcription of RNA.
All of the following are part of a prokaryotic cell except
C) an endoplasmic reticulum.
Which of the following is a major cause of the size limits for certain types of cells?
C) the need for a surface area of sufficient area to allow the cell's function
The cell walls of bacteria, fungi, and plant cells and the extracellular matrix of animal cells are all external to the plasma membrane. Which of the following is a characteristic of all of these extracellular structures?
B) They are constructed of materials that are largely synthesized in the cytoplasm and then transported out of the cell.
Which of the following types of molecules are the major structural components of the cell membrane?
B) phospholipids and proteins
14. A cell concentration of NaCl is 10%. It is placed in a solution that has a NaCl concentration of 40%. In this case, the solution is said to be ___________________ and water will move _________________ the cell
C) Hypertonic: out of
14. Why are Phosphatases important in cell communication?
C) They can activate molecules in a signal transduction cascade by removing a phosphate.
Insulin, a hormone secreted by pancreatic cells, stimulates glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells by mobilizing glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane. As depicted in Figure 1, binding of insulin to the insulin receptor triggers an intracellular signaling cascade in which certain molecules activate other molecules in a relay of the hormone signal to cell targets. One outcome of the signaling cascade is mobilization of GLUT4 from vesicle storage sites in the cytoplasm to sites at the cell surface, where GLUT4 allows glucose to enter the cell.

In type 2 diabetes, the cellular response to insulin is disrupted, and individuals with type 2 diabetes cannot properly regulate their blood glucose levels. In an investigation of the insulin signaling pathway, samples of skeletal muscle were isolated from individuals who have type 2 diabetes and from individuals who do not. The results of several experiments that were performed on the muscle samples are shown in Figure 2, Figure 3, and Figure 4.

Based on the experimental results, which of the following describes the most likely defect in muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes?
C) IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations.
. A net movement of water into the beaker occurs in which of the following dialysis tubes?
D) 6
To model a plant cell, a permeable, nonflexible case is placed around each piece of dialysis tubing. The greatest pressure potential will develop within dialysis tube number
C) 4
Zucchini core cells are measured and determined to have a sucrose concentration of 0.52 M at 22°C. How will these cells respond in a .2 M solution.
A) Cells will expand as water enters the cell moving from high water potential to low water potential.
. The chemical reaction for photosynthesis is 6 CO2 + 6 H2O + light energy → C6H12O6 + 6 O2 + 6 H2O
If the input water is labeled with a radioactive isotope of oxygen, 18O, then the oxygen gas released as the reaction proceeds is also labeled with 18O. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
B. During the light reactions of photosynthesis specifically, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.
The location of glycolysis in the cell is the:
D. cytosol (cytoplasm).
The most likely explanation for the results shown
in Graph I is that
A. pH affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme
In which graph or graphs is the activity of the enzyme independent of pH?
B. Graph IV
Enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline (basic) pH are represented by which of the following graphs?
B. II only
Why is ATP an important molecule in metabolism?
C. It provides energy coupling between exergonic and endergonic reactions.
Whenever energy is transformed, there is always an increase in the
D. entropy of the universe.
Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
C. A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation
. Which of the following terms correctly describes the change in Gibbs Free Energy (∆G) for the reaction of hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide to form liquid water and sodium chloride at 30° C?
Kelvin= 273 + ° C ∆G= ∆H - T∆S
∆H= 20.25kJ/mol ∆S= 0.629 kJ/molK
C. -∆G, spontaneous
A reaction has a change in free energy of 32 kcal/mol. If ATP hydrolysis (-7.3 kcal/mol free energy change) is coupled to this reaction how many ATP molecules would be required for the coupling to be successful.
D. 5
Consider the graphs above. Identify which graph depicts the rate of an enzyme catalyzed reaction from low substrate concentration to saturating concentration.
B
Two nutrient solutions are maintained at the same pH. Actively respiring mitochondria are isolated and placed into each of the two solutions. Oxygen gas is bubbled into one solution. The other solution is depleted of available oxygen. Which of the following best explains why ATP production is greater in the tube with oxygen than in the tube without oxygen?
A. The rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen.
. In oxidative phosphorylation, the most direct source of energy used to covert ADP + Pi to ATP is:
D. energy released from the movement of protons through ATP synthtase.
The diagram below shows energy changes in a specific chemical reaction with and without the addition of an enzyme to the reaction
A. Does the addition of an enzyme reduce the activation energy required for a reaction?
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data?
C. A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released.
An increase in the rate of oxygen production by algae would be accompanied by a comparable increase in the rate of production of which of the following substances?
A. C6H12O6
Carbohydrate-synthesizing reactions of photosynthesis directly require...
products of the light reactions
Which statement about enzymes is NOT true?
Enzymes are destroyed when they are used and must be made each time a reaction occurs
A researcher wants to refine an investigation to determine the effectiveness of an enzyme at various temperatures. Which of the following would best help the researcher determine how well the enzyme is working?
a. The researcher should measure the amount of product at the end of the reaction.
What is the main function of the cell wall?
. Support and protect the cell
Which of the following explains the cellular function of a ribosome?
It is directly involved in the bonding of amino acids to synthesize proteins.
What is the term for the body's ability to maintain a stable internal balance?
Homeostasis
A lysosome _____.
Is a membrane-bound organelle that holds digestive enzymes.
Which of the following would a cell from a heart muscle MOST LIKELY have an unusually high proportion of?
b. Mitochondria
Which of the following ratios limits the size of cells?
The surface area to volume
. The diagram to the left represents movement of a large molecule across a membrane.

Which process does this diagram represent?
c. Active Transport
The fluid mosaic model indicates that the cell membrane is ___.
flexible and composed of different molecules
The membrane shown below is permeable to water but not to sucrose.


How will the molecules move to reach equilibrium?
Only water will move from Side B to Side A.
A patient is dehydrated and needs fluid in his cells. Which type of IV solution will cause water to enter his cells?
b. A hypotonic solution
c. An isotonic solution
Three students are investigating how celery changes when placed in different types of solutions. The students use similar amounts of celery and solutions at the same temperature. A summary of their results is shown below.

How should each student describe their solutions based on the results?
c. Solution 1 is isotonic, solution 2 is hypotonic, and solution 3 is hypertonic.
The CFTR protein is made up of 1,480 amino acids linked together in a chain. Some humans produce a version of the CFTR protein in which phenylalanine (an amino acid) has been deleted from position 508 of the amino acid chain.
Which of the following best predicts how the amino acid deletion will affect the structure of the CFTR protein?
D. It will affect the primary, secondary, and tertiary structures of the CFTR protein.
Individuals with an inherited autosomal recessive disorder called primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) often have severe respiratory problems due to defective cilia. Males with PCD are often sterile because they produce sperm with defective flagella. Which of the following most likely explains the effect of the recessive allele?
D. The cells do not produce functional motor proteins in flagella and cilia.
Damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate platelets and stimulate the formation of blood clots. Which of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
D. Activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets.
Vertebrate immune responses involve communication over short and long distances. Which of the following statements best helps explain how cell surface proteins, such as MHC proteins and T cell receptors, mediate cell communication over short distances?
C. The proteins interact directly with proteins on the surfaces of other cells.
) When crossing an organism that is homozygous recessive for a single trait with a heterozygote, what is the chance of producing an offspring with the homozygous recessive phenotype?
B) 50%
) In a cross AaBbCc × AaBbCc, what is the probability of producing the genotype AABBCC?
B) 1/64
Which of the following is an example of polygenic inheritance (a trait that is defined by multiple genes)?
B) Skin pigmentation in humans
A woman has six sons. The chance that her next child will be a daughter is
B) 1/2.
Which of the following statements is true?
A) The closer two genes are on a chromosome, the lower the probability that a crossover will occur between them.
Radish flowers may be red, purple, or white. A cross between a red-flowered plant and a white-flowered plant yields all-purple offspring. The part of the radish we eat may be oval or long, with long being the dominant characteristic.

If true-breeding red long radishes are crossed with true breeding white oval radishes, the F1 will be expected to be which of the following?
B) Purple and long
Pea plants were particularly well suited for use in Mendel's breeding experiments for all of the following reasons except that
D) peas have an unusually long generation time.
What is the difference between a monohybrid cross and a dihybrid cross?
C) A dihybrid cross involves organisms that are heterozygous for two characters and a monohybrid only one.
A sexually reproducing animal has two unlinked genes, one for head shape (H) and one for tail length (T). Its genotype is HhTt. Which of the following genotypes is possible in a gamete from this organism?
A) HT
What type of chromosomal mutation is displayed here:
A) duplication
Nondisjunction can occur if ______ chromosomes fail to separate during meiosis I.
A) homologous
If the parents are AO and BO genotypes for the ABO blood group, their children could include which of the following genotypes?
D) AO, BO, AB, and OO only
How many unique gametes can be generated from the following genotype?
AABbCCDDEeFfGGHhJj
A) 32
Determine the sequence of genes along a chromosome based on the following recombination frequencies:
A—B, 8 map units
A—C, 28 map units
A—D, 25 map units
B—C, 20 map units
B—D, 33 map units.
B) C-B-A-D
The pedigree below traces the inheritance of alkaptonuria, a biochemical disorder. Affected individuals, indicated here by the colored circles and squares, are unable to metabolize a substance called alkapton, which colors the urine and stains body tissues. Based on the pedigree below, characterize how this trait inherited.
B) Autosomal Recessive
What event occurred prior to fertilization that resulted in zygotes
B) Nondisjunction
) A mutation that is found in this type of cells is most likely to be passed from a parent to its offspring?
D) Sperm
What important event and genetic outcome is demonstrated in the model below
B) Crossing over, leading to genetic variation
Students have been instructed by their professor to evaluate this karyotype showing the chromosomes of a man with an extra Y chromosome.
a. The additional Y chromosome was provided by the father of the man. The extra chromosome was added to the sperm during meiosis.
Below is a sequence of a normal gene and the same gene in a person with cancer. What type of mutation is seen in the DNA strand of the person with cancer compared to the known gene?
A) Insertion
A cross between a red cow and a white bull produce an offspring with an intermediate roan-color phenotype (a spotted red-and-white appearance). This exhibits what type of genetic inheritance?
A) codominance
What is the expected percent change in the DNA content of a typical eukaryotic cell as it progresses through the cell cycle from the start of the G1 phase to the end of the G2 phase?
D. +100%
) DNA replication occurs
A. during the S phase of the cell cycle
Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared to normal, healthy cells?
A. Shorter cell cycle
All of the following are true statements about meiosis in mammals EXCEPT:
D. It produces four genetically identical gametes.
Both mitosis and meiosis begin with a parent cell that is diploid. Which of the following best describes how mitosis and meiosis result in daughter cells with different numbers of chromosomes?
D. Mitosis produces two identical diploid daughter cells after one round of division. Meiosis produces four haploid daughter cells after two rounds of division.
) What is a chromatid?
B. a replicate chromosome
The figure above shows a model of a ligand precursor being cleaved to produce an active ligand that binds to a specific receptor. Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
A A change in the cytoskeletal attachment of transmembrane proteins
B
The presence of a large amount of the precursor form of the ligand
C
An increase in the ratio of the number of unsaturated to the number of saturated fatty acid tails of the membrane lipids
D
A mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution of a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in the ligand binding site of the receptor
D
A mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution of a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in the ligand binding site of the receptor
Insulin, a hormone secreted by pancreatic cells, stimulates glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells by mobilizing glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane. As depicted in Figure 1, binding of insulin to the insulin receptor triggers an intracellular signaling cascade in which certain molecules activate other molecules in a relay of the hormone signal to cell targets. One outcome of the signaling cascade is mobilization of GLUT4 from vesicle storage sites in the cytoplasm to sites at the cell surface, where GLUT4 allows glucose to enter the cell.
In type 2 diabetes, the cellular response to insulin is disrupted, and individuals with type 2 diabetes cannot properly regulate their blood glucose levels. In an investigation of the insulin signaling pathway, samples of skeletal muscle were isolated from individuals who have type 2 diabetes and from individuals who do not. The results of several experiments that were performed on the muscle samples are shown in Figure 2, Figure 3, and Figure 4.

Based on the experimental results, which of the following describes the most likely defect in muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes?

A
Insulin receptor proteins do not reach the cell surface.
B
Insulin does not activate its receptor.
C
IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations.
D
GLUT4 blocks glucose from entering cells.
Related Content & Skills
C
IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations.
Insulin, a hormone secreted by pancreatic cells, stimulates glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells by mobilizing glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane. As depicted in Figure 1, binding of insulin to the insulin receptor triggers an intracellular signaling cascade in which certain molecules activate other molecules in a relay of the hormone signal to cell targets. One outcome of the signaling cascade is mobilization of GLUT4 from vesicle storage sites in the cytoplasm to sites at the cell surface, where GLUT4 allows glucose to enter the cell.
n type 2 diabetes, the cellular response to insulin is disrupted, and individuals with type 2 diabetes cannot properly regulate their blood glucose levels. In an investigation of the insulin signaling pathway, samples of skeletal muscle were isolated from individuals who have type 2 diabetes and from individuals who do not. The results of several experiments that were performed on the muscle samples are shown in Figure 2, Figure 3, and Figure 4.

Based on the information presented, which of the following genetic changes in an individual without diabetes is most likely to result in a disrupted cellular response to insulin signaling similar to that of an individual with type 2 diabetes?

A
A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein
B
Duplication of the gene encoding a PI-3 kinase that results in synthesis of a muscle-specific variant of the enzyme in skin cells as well as in muscle cells
C
A mutation in the gene encoding IRS-1 that causes the protein to be active in muscle cells even in the absence of insulin signaling
D
Insertion of a small segment of DNA into the promoter of the Glut4 gene that results in increased synthesis of GLUT4 proteins in muscle cells
A
A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein
nsulin, a hormone secreted by pancreatic cells, stimulates glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells by mobilizing glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane. As depicted in Figure 1, binding of insulin to the insulin receptor triggers an intracellular signaling cascade in which certain molecules activate other molecules in a relay of the hormone signal to cell targets. One outcome of the signaling cascade is mobilization of GLUT4 from vesicle storage sites in the cytoplasm to sites at the cell surface, where GLUT4 allows glucose to enter the cell.
In type 2 diabetes, the cellular response to insulin is disrupted, and individuals with type 2 diabetes cannot properly regulate their blood glucose levels. In an investigation of the insulin signaling pathway, samples of skeletal muscle were isolated from individuals who have type 2 diabetes and from individuals who do not. The results of several experiments that were performed on the muscle samples are shown in Figure 2, Figure 3, and Figure 4.

Which of the following is a valid interpretation of the experimental results that explains how individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from individuals without diabetes?

A
The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals.
B
The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that no functional GLUT4 protein is produced in the muscle cells of those individuals.
C
The absence of activated insulin receptors in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicates that no insulin is secreted by the pancreatic cells of those individuals.
D
The absence of activated IRS-1 in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicates that no functional insulin receptor protein is produced in the muscle cells of those individuals.
A
The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals.
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?

A
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP .
B
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor catalyzes the conversion of glycogen to glucose.
C
Epinephrine diffuses through the plasma membrane; the hormone dimerizes in the cytosol.
D
Epinephrine is taken into the cell by endocytosis; glycogen is converted to glucose in the endocytotic vesicle
A
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP .
The epinephrine signaling pathway plays a role in regulating glucose homeostasis in muscle cells. The signaling pathway is activated by the binding of epinephrine to the beta-2 adrenergic receptor. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.

Based on Figure 1, which of the following statements best describes the epinephrine signaling pathway?
A
It involves the opening and closing of ion channels.
B
In involves enzymes activating other enzymes.
C
It involves changes in the expression of target genes.
D
It involves protons moving down a concentration gradient.
B
In involves enzymes activating other enzymes.
The epinephrine signaling pathway plays a role in regulating glucose homeostasis in muscle cells. The signaling pathway is activated by the binding of epinephrine to the beta-2 adrenergic receptor. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.
Figure 1. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway in muscle cells
Which of the following statements best describes the role of adenylyl cyclase in the epinephrine signaling pathway?
A
It converts a polymer to its monomer subunits.
B
It moves substances across the plasma membrane.
C
It accelerates the production of a second messenger.
D
It transfers phosphate groups from ATP to protein substrates.
.C
It accelerates the production of a second messenger.
The epinephrine signaling pathway plays a role in regulating glucose homeostasis in muscle cells. The signaling pathway is activated by the binding of epinephrine to the beta-2 adrenergic receptor. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.

Which of the following outcomes will most likely result from the irreversible binding of GDP to the G protein?

A
The intracellular concentration of glycogen will increase.
B
The intracellular concentration of activated protein kinase A will increase.
C
The intracellular concentration of cyclic AMP will increase.
D
The intracellular concentration of glucose-1-phosphate will increase.
A
The intracellular concentration of glycogen will increase.
The epinephrine signaling pathway plays a role in regulating glucose homeostasis in muscle cells. The signaling pathway is activated by the binding of epinephrine to the beta-2 adrenergic receptor. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.
Figure 1. A simplified model of the epinephrine signaling pathway in muscle cells
A researcher claims that the epinephrine signaling pathway controls a catabolic process in muscle cells. Which of the following statements best helps justify the researcher's claim?
A
Epinephrine is a signaling molecule that binds to a transmembrane protein.
B
The G protein in the epinephrine signaling pathway consists of three different subunits.
C
Phosphorylase kinase catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP.
D
Glycogen phosphorylase catalyzes the conversion of glycogen to glucose-1-phosphate.
D
Glycogen phosphorylase catalyzes the conversion of glycogen to glucose-1-phosphate.
Ethylene causes fruits to ripen. In a signaling pathway, receptors activate transcription factors, which ultimately leads to ripening.
Which of the following best supports the claim that ethylene initiates the signal transduction pathway that leads to ripening of fruit?
A
Ethylene is a simple gaseous molecule, which makes it easily detected by receptors.
B
Fruit will ripen in closed containers without exposure to air.
C
Ethylene synthesis is under both positive and negative feedback regulation.
D
Loss-of-function mutations in ethylene receptors result in changes to the ripening process.
D
Loss-of-function mutations in ethylene receptors result in changes to the ripening process.
Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones that control cellular responses through several different signaling pathways. One of the signaling pathways involves the glucocorticoid receptor, an intracellular protein that is activated by binding to a glucocorticoid molecule. A simplified model of the glucocorticoid receptor signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.
Figure 1. A simplified model of the glucocorticoid receptor signaling pathway
Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of a mutation that results in a loss of the glucocorticoid receptor's ligand binding function?
A
The transduction of the glucocorticoid signal across the plasma membrane will be blocked.
B
The glucocorticoid receptor will remain associated with the accessory proteins.
C
The rate of diffusion of glucocorticoid molecules into the cell will increase.
D
The concentration of glucocorticoid receptors inside the nucleus will increase.
B
The glucocorticoid receptor will remain associated with the accessory proteins.
In response to elevated blood glucose levels, beta (β) cells in the pancreas release insulin, a regulatory hormone. Insulin signals body cells to take up glucose from the blood, which returns blood glucose levels back to normal. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that destroys β-cells, resulting in elevated blood glucose levels.
Researchers have proposed that diabetes could be treated by implanting human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) that have been induced to develop into β-cells (hESC-β). To test the proposed treatment, the researchers set up two groups of genetically identical mice and implanted the mice from one group with hESC-β cells. Several weeks after the hESC-β implant, both groups of mice were given a drug (STZ) that selectively destroys the naturally occurring mouse β-cells but does not affect the implanted hESC-β cells. Figure 1 shows a comparison of average blood glucose levels in both groups of mice.



Figure 1. Average blood glucose levels in mice after STZ treatment. Error bars indicate standard deviation.

In a continuation of the experiment, the researchers removed the hESC-β implant from one of the mice 16 weeks after STZ treatment. Figure 2 shows the blood glucose levels in the mouse over the duration of the experiment.

Figure 2. Blood glucose levels for an individual mouse over the duration of the experiment.
In contrast to type 1 diabetes, where there is no insulin production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failure of body cells to respond normally to insulin. Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following best predicts the effectiveness of using hESC-β implantation to treat type 2 diabetes?
A
The treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-β cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells.
B
The treatment would fail because the implanted hESC-β cells would require more glucose than the body can produce.
C
The treatment would succeed because the implanted hESC-β cells can express the gene that codes for human insulin.
D
The treatment would succeed because the body cells would secrete more insulin in the presence of the implanted hESC-β cells.
A
The treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-β cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells.
Figure 1 shows a model of a signal transduction cascade, initiated by the binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor protein A.

Figure 1. Model of signal transduction cascade incorporating protein A
A DNA mutation changes the shape of the extracellular domain of transmembrane receptor protein Aproduced by the cell. Which of the following predictions is the most likely consequence of the mutation?
A
Production of activated molecule 1 will stop, but production of activated molecules 2 and 3 will continue.
B
The molecule that normally binds to protein A will no longer attach, deactivating the cellular response.
C
The molecule that normally binds to protein A will not enter the cell, thus no cellular response will occur.
D
Since protein A is embedded in the membrane, the mutation will be silent and not affect the cellular response.
B
The molecule that normally binds to protein A will no longer attach, deactivating the cellular response.
Notch is a receptor protein displayed on the surface of certain cells in developing fruit fly embryos. Notch's ligand is a membrane-bound protein called Delta that is displayed on the surface of adjacent cells. When Notch is activated by its ligand, the intracellular tail of the Notch protein becomes separated from the rest of the protein. This allows the intracellular tail to move to the cell's nucleus and alter the expression of specific genes.
Which of the following statements best explains Delta's role in regulating cell communication through the Notch signaling pathway?
A
Delta transmits a chemical signal to all the cells of a developing embryo.
B
Delta allows the cells of a developing embryo to communicate without making direct contact.
C
Delta restricts cell communication to short distances within a developing embryo.
D
Delta determines which cells in a developing embryo express the gene that encodes the Notch protein.
C
Delta restricts cell communication to short distances within a developing embryo.
In flowering plants, plasmodesmata are narrow channels through cell walls that connect the cytoplasms of adjacent cells. An explanation of how plant cells communicate across cell walls will most likely refer to the diffusion through plasmodesmata of which of the following?
A
Membrane-bound organelles
B
Condensed, duplicated chromosomes
C
Branched polysaccharides
D
Small, water-soluble molecules
D
Small, water-soluble molecules
In a certain signal transduction pathway, the binding of an extracellular molecule to a cell-surface protein results in a rapid increase in the concentration of cyclic AMP inside the cell. The cyclic AMP binds to and activates cytosolic enzymes that then activate other enzymes in the cell.

Which of the following statements best describes the role of cyclic AMP in the signal transduction pathway?
A
It acts as a signaling molecule that passes the signal from the cell to other cells.
B
It acts as a receptor that carries the signal from outside the cell to inside the cell.
C
It acts as a second messenger that helps relay and amplify the signal within the cell.
D
It acts as a channel protein that transmits the signal across the cell's nuclear membrane.
C
It acts as a second messenger that helps relay and amplify the signal within the cell.
A student claims that the Y chromosome contains the sex-determining region gene, known as the SRYgene, which causes male fetuses to develop testes.

Which of the following provides correct information about cell signaling that supports the claim?
A
The SRY gene produces a protein that binds to specific regions of DNA in certain tissues, which affects the development of these tissues.
B
The SRY gene produces a protein that deletes portions of the X chromosome in males so that male characteristics can develop.
C
The SRY gene produces an RNA segment that is exported from specific cells and targets the developing gonads.
D
The SRY gene is found only in tissues of the developing gonads.
A
The SRY gene produces a protein that binds to specific regions of DNA in certain tissues, which affects the development of these tissues.
Steroid hormones, such as testosterone, pass through the plasma membrane and bind to an intracellular protein, as shown in the diagram below. The hormone-receptor complex then enters the nucleus, where it interacts with DNA to promote transcription of a specific gene.


Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
A
Histone protein synthesis will increase because histones maintain the DNA in an optimal conformation for chromosome assembly.
B
Ribosome production will increase because ribosomes are specific for the mRNA with which they bind during translation.
C
DNA replication will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA .
D
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA .
D
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA .
The diagram above represents a model of signal transduction pathways (I and II) in a cell that is targeted by two different hormones (H1 and H2). The components of the signal transduction pathways are identified in the figure legend. Each cellular molecule in both pathways can exist in an inactive or active form. When the components in pathway I are sequentially activated, the TAP molecules promote cell division. When the components in pathway II are sequentially activated, downstream signaling by the G protein is inhibited. Based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
A
A mutation in the gene encoding PP that results in a nonfunctional protein
B
A mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
C
A mutation in the gene encoding R1 so that it is inactive even in the presence of H1
D
A mutation in the gene encoding R2 so that it is active even in the absence of H2
B
A mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
The diagram above shows a developing worm embryo at the four-cell stage. Experiments have shown that when cell 3 divides, the anterior daughter cell gives rise to muscle and gonads and the posterior daughter cell gives rise to the intestine. However, if the cells of the embryo are separated from one another early during the four-cell stage, no intestine will form. Other experiments have shown that if cell 3 and cell 4 are recombined after the initial separation, the posterior daughter cell of cell 3 will once again give rise to normal intestine. Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for these findings?
A
A cell surface protein on cell 4 signals cell 3 to induce formation of the worm's intestine.
B
The plasma membrane of cell 4 interacts with the plasma membrane of the posterior portion of cell 3, causing invaginations that become microvilli.
C
Cell 3 passes an electrical signal to cell 4, which induces differentiation in cell 4.
D
Cell 4 transfers genetic material to cell 3, which directs the development of intestinal cells.
A
A cell surface protein on cell 4 signals cell 3 to induce formation of the worm's intestine.
The diagram above shows a developing worm embryo at the four-cell stage. Experiments have shown that when cell 3 divides, the anterior daughter cell gives rise to muscle and gonads and the posterior daughter cell gives rise to the intestine. However, if the cells of the embryo are separated from one another early during the four-cell stage, no intestine will form. Other experiments have shown that if cell 3 and cell 4 are recombined after the initial separation, the posterior daughter cell of cell 3 will once again give rise to normal intestine. Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for these findings?
A
A cell surface protein on cell 4 signals cell 3 to induce formation of the worm's intestine.
B
The plasma membrane of cell 4 interacts with the plasma membrane of the posterior portion of cell 3, causing invaginations that become microvilli.
C
Cell 3 passes an electrical signal to cell 4, which induces differentiation in cell 4.
D
Cell 4 transfers genetic material to cell 3, which directs the development of intestinal cells.
A
A cell surface protein on cell 4 signals cell 3 to induce formation of the worm's intestine.
Type 1 diabetes results from the destruction of insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. Individuals with type 1 diabetes produce insufficient amounts of insulin, a hormone that regulates the concentration of glucose in the blood.
Which of the following best explains how treatment with a drug that stimulates the production of insulin receptors on target cells will affect the insulin signaling pathway in an individual with type 1 diabetes?
A
The drug will have little or no effect on the signaling pathway because the receptors will not be activated in the absence of insulin.
B
The drug will have little or no effect on the signaling pathway because insulin receptors will not be allowed to enter the cells.
C
The drug will restore the function of the signaling pathway because insulin levels will return to normal.
D
The drug will restore the function of the signaling pathway because nonpancreatic cells will begin to produce insulin receptors.
A
The drug will have little or no effect on the signaling pathway because the receptors will not be activated in the absence of insulin.
Which of the following best explains how small molecules move between adjacent cells in a plant shoot?
A
The molecules are actively transported by motor proteins along the cytoskeleton.
B
The molecules pass freely through plasmodesmata, which are cytoplasmic strands connecting two cells.
C
The molecules are swept along in the extracellular fluid by cilia projecting from cell membranes.
D
The molecules bind reversibly to receptors on the cell membranes of xylem.
B
The molecules pass freely through plasmodesmata, which are cytoplasmic strands connecting two cells.
Which of the following best represents two different signaling pathways that share a second messenger?
A

B

C
D
C
Which of the following statements best describes how a growth factor stimulates cell division from outside a cell?
A
The growth factor binds to other cells in the same area and holds them together to form a large, multicellular structure.
B
The growth factor binds to receptors on the cell surface, initiating a signal transduction pathway that activates specific target genes.
C
The growth factor binds to sugar molecules in the extracellular fluid and provides them to the cell as a source of energy.
D
The growth factor binds to phospholipids in the plasma membrane, creating a channel through which substances enter the cell.
B
The growth factor binds to receptors on the cell surface, initiating a signal transduction pathway that activates specific target genes.
The diagram above represents a model of signal transduction pathways in a cell that is targeted by two different hormones (H1 and H2). The components of the signal transduction pathways are identified in the figure legend... based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
B) A mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein (it acts as a stop sign).
Which of the following diagrams correctly identifies both the structure of neurons and the direction of information flow between neurons?
D) [Direction flow goes from dendrites to axon terminals, left side is the cell body (thicker and wider) right side is not (two strands, smaller) in both presynaptic and postsynaptic situations.]
Signaling diagram for steroid hormones: Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
D) Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA.
Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ions best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
A) [Calcium goes in, sodium goes in, potassium goes out.]
Researchers investigating the regulation of neurotransmitter release from presynaptic neurons proposed a model in which CDK5, a protein expressed in axon terminals, inhibits the movement of synaptic vesicles to the presynaptic membrane... to test their model, the researchers used a modified version of green fluorescent protein...based on the model, which of the following best explains why a bright green fluorescence was observed following stimulation of a presynaptic neuron?
C) GFP contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis.
Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
D) Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
Based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism by which CDK5 regulates neurotransmitter release?
C) CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.
Previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35. Which of the following best predicts how p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function?
B) Degradation of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains how regulation of neurotransmitter release might increase the range of responses to a stimulus in the nervous system?
B) Different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitter.
A micro-electrode is inserted into a neuron...which of the following plots most accurately represents the changes in membrane potential throughout a single action potential?
C) [Flat, bump, spikes up, spikes down, bump, flat.]
A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease...which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
Based on the data in Table 1, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the F1 generation?
A) Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape
In Table 1, the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring from the testcross with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggests that the genes for flower color and pod shape are located
C) On a different chromosome
Which of the following provides the best justification for an assumption that might have been used in the computer simulation?
B) The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of the purple-flowered and white-flowered plants had purple flowers.
The data above represents the results of three different crosses...which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
D) The allele for blue is an X-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2.
In Drosophila melanogaster the allele for wild-type tan body color (B) is dominant...which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
B) The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.
The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mitochondrial DNA, because
C) Maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring.
Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed female and a red-eyed male?
D) Rr XtXt * Rr XtY
A true breeding female with wild type wings and white eyes is crossed with a male with vestigial wings and red eyes. What proportion of the offspring are expected to be males with wild-type wings and white eyes?
.50
An unbarred male heterozygous for the rose-comb trait is crossed with a barred female with a single comb. What proportion of the resulting progeny are expected to be barred males with single combs?
.25
Of the following stages of meiosis illustrated for a typical cell, which contributes most to diversity among the warblers?
C) [Cell in metaphase, crossed over chromosomes.]
Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?
C) A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase.
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids...which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
B) Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
The process depicted in the image above is best summarized by which of the following descriptions?
D) During meiosis, crossing over leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes.
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the
C) Condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells.
The cells found in the region of the graph labeled Q are involved in what major cell activity?
D) DNA synthesis
The region on the graph labeled P represents cells in what stage of the cell cycle?
A) G1
Cells in which region of the graph are ready to enter mitosis as the next step in the cell cycle?
C) R only
Which is the best explanation of the role of polar bodies during the formation of an egg?
D) The first polar body is produces in meiosis 1, when the pairs of homologous chromosomes are separated into two cells..
The diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true?
C) The diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation.
Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
C) A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation
Which of the following best explains why ATP production is greater in the tube with oxygen than in the tube without oxygen?
A) The rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen.
Which of the following is the best explanation for the pattern of change in mass of the organisms over time?
B) Cellular respiration
In order to provide accurate volumetric measurements of oxygen gas consumption, the experimental setup should include which of the following?
A) A substance that removes carbon dioxide gas
According to the data, the mice at 10 degrees C demonstrated greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than did the mice at 25 degrees C. This is most likely explained by which of the following statements?
A) The mice at 10 degrees C had a higher rate of ATP production than the mice at 25 degrees C.
The difference in trends in oxygen consumption among crickets and mice is do to their
C) Mode of internal temperature regulation
The diagram below shows the processes occurring in and around the inner mitochondrial membrane...based on the diagram, which question best investigates a factor that affects the processes shown?
A) What effect will lowering the pH in the intermembrane space have on the proteins in the inner mitochondrial membrane?
Based on the information provided, what was the change (in degrees C) in water temperature associated with the change in respiration rate shown in Figure 2?
5.0 degrees C
Which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?
B) Is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?
Which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?
B) The inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the intermembrane space and the matrix.
The diagram above represents a typical rod-shaped bacterium. Which of the following best describes a feature shown in the diagram that is unique to archaea and bacteria?
C) The organism does not have a nuclear membrane surrounding its genetic material.
Which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure?
C) It has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes.
Which of the following subcellular structures is likely to be more prominent in liver cells than in adipose cells?
B) Golgi apparatus
Which of the following best describes an advantage that eukaryote organisms have over prokaryote organisms?
D) Eukaryotes have organelles that allow for compartmentalization of cellular processes, which increases the efficiency of those processes.
The figure below illustrates a eukaryotic cell. Which of the following best describes how the three structures indicated by the arrows work together?
B) To synthesize and isolate proteins for secretion or for use in the cell.
A pathogenic bacterium has been engulfed by a phagocytic cell as part of the nonspecific immune response. Which of the following illustrations best represents the response?
C) [Lysosome present, bacterium has been engulfed]
The figure above shows a series of microscope images taken over time of ovalbumin production...the microscope images indicate that ovalumin
C) Crosses the endoplasmic reticulum membrane as it is translated, then moves to the Golgi apparatus, then to vesicles from which it is secreted.
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells...which of the following statements is justified by these observations?
B) An ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells.
The hydrolytic enzymes are most likely to accumulate in which of the following cellular structures?
D) Golgi complex
The figure above represents a rough endoplasmic reticulum. Which of the following best describes the role of the structure labeled Y?
C) Structure Y is the location where proteins are synthesized.
Which of the following best describes how sticklebacks in the same population with identical copies of the Pitx1 genes can still show phenotypic variation in the pelvic spine character?
B) Expression of the Pitx1 gene is affected by mutations at other genetic loci.
A mutation that affects Pitx1 gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of the following genetic loci?
D) Promoter
In sticklebacks, which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?
D) The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing pelvis but not in the developing jaw.
The Trp operon...based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?
B) In the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.
Based on the diagram, which of the following most likely contributes to the specific expression pattern of gene X?
C) The activator is a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that is present in some tissues but not in other
Which of the figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized?
D) [Promoter | Operator (repressor protein) | Structural Genes]
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
B) Beta-galactosidase will be produces, even in the absence of lactose
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
C) Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?
D) The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?
A) Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
Which of the following questions is most relevant to understanding the Calvin cycle?
B) How is ATP used in the formation of 3-carbon carbohydrates?
What most likely causes the trends in oxygen concentration shown in the graph above?
D) Photosynthesis produces more oxygen than is consumed by respiration during the day.
Which of the following provides the best indication that light is required for the activation of electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
B) Comparing the observed results for sample 2 and sample 3
Which of the following can be reasonably concluded from the experimental results?
D) Light from a lamp can substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes.
In an additional sample containing the chloroplast/DCPIP solution was placed...which of the predictions would be most consistent with the experimental results?
C) The change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.
Which of the following descriptions of photosynthesis best explains the results of the experiment?
A) Availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP depends on light energy.
Which of the following scientific questions could be investigated using a similar experimental setup?
B) What wavelength of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
The chemical reaction for photosynthesis is...which of the following is the most likely explanation?
B) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.
Which statement explains the process that occurs immediately after the electrons are excited in photosystem 2?
C) The excited electrons are replaced when an enzyme splits a water molecule into two electrons, an oxygen atom, and two hydrogen ions.
According to the data above, what is the deepest water level at which light penetration...
1.5 meters
Which of the following best predicts which diagrammed microscope view the laboratory worker would see and best explains why?
C) View 2 because the rate of water movement into the RBCs equals the rate of water movement out of the cells.
Which of the following cube shaped cells would be most efficient in removing waste by diffusion?
A) [Smallest one]
Paramecia are unicellular protists...which of the following is the correct explanation for the data?
B) The contraction rate increases as the osmolarity decreases because the amount of water entering the paramecia by osmosis increases.
Which of the following is most likely if an IV of distilled water is administered to a patient?
C) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will expand as water moves osmotically into the cells from the blood.
Which of the following statements is true regarding the movement of substances across cell membranes?
A) Ions are unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the nonpolar tail regions of the phospholipids are hydrophobic.
Which of the following physiological mechanisms will the researchers most likely observe among the surviving organisms in the lake?
B) Single-celled organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the increased flow of water from cells to the environment.
Which of the following accurately describes one of the movements taking place?
D) Na+ transport out of the cell requires ATP hydrolysis
Which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to the model represented in the figure above?
C) Which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane?
Using the straight line on the graph above, calculate the solute potential of the zucchini squash at 21 degrees C.
-8.6
What is the ratio of surface area to volume for the cell that is predicted to exchange materials with the surrounding environment at a faster rate by diffusion?
3
Which of the following best explains the banding patterns exhibited in Figure 1?
A) The HbA DNA contains a recognition site for the Mst 2 restriction enzyme
Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950s most directly support which of the following claims about DNA?
D) The basic molecular structure is a helix
Which of the following enzymes were used and why?
A) Proteases and RNases to rule out protein and RNA as the transforming factors.
Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
D) [Oyazaki fragments going left along 5-->3, straight arrow going right along 3-->5]
Which of the following best represents the DNA of the two daughter cells produced when a bacterial cell with this particular mismatch replicates its DNA and divides?
B) [A,T mutant; G,C normal]
Which of the following is one way in which these two segments would differ?
C) Segment 1 would become denatured at a lower temperature than would segment 2 because A-T base pairs have two hydrogen bonds whereas G-C base pairs have three
The banding patterns of the DNA fragments reveal that
C) The mother cannot be the biological parent of all three children
All of the following are likely steps that would lead to the production of these gel patterns EXCEPT
B) Using a different restriction enzyme to treat the DNA of each individual
Which statement would scientists from the 1930s cite as the strongest evidence that proteins...
D) DNA is made up of four different types of nucleotides, whereas proteins are made up of 20 different types of amino acids, enabling proteins to create many more chemical messengers than DNA can.
Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
B) Single-stranded DNA
GULO gene in lemurs...which of the following pairs of predictions is most helpful in explaining the discrepancy?
A) [No change to the protein | A premature stop codon..]
Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutation at nucleotide position 7 in the GULO gene of humans?
B) The deletion of the single nucleotide causes a frame shift, changing the primary structure downstream of the mutation and resulting in a nonfunctional protein.
Which of the following biotechnology approaches could be used to identify ferritin mRNA in a sample of total cellular RNA?
B) RNA samples could be separated by size using agarose gel electrophoresis and incubated with labeled single-stranded DNA molecules that are complementary to the ferritin mRNA.
Which of the following best explains how organisms regulate ferritin protein levels in response to available iron?
B) Translation of ferritin mRNA is stimulated by iron.
The data can best be used to support which of the following claims about the mechanism for regulating ferritin gene expression?
A) Iron increases ribosome binding to the ferritin mRNA.
Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
A) A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta-subunit
Which of the following best describes an even during step 2 in the simplified model below?
D) Noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule.
Given the codon chart...what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
D) The reading frame of the sequence would shift, causing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point.
Which of the following represents the correct polypeptide...
C) Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His
Calculate the number of nucleotides in the mRNA that encode only the amino acids in the transmembrane portion of the protein.
72 nucleotides.
Which of the following question can best be answered by the diagram?
A) Does the addition of an enzyme reduce the activation energy required for a reaction?
Which statement best explains the data?
D) Both samples are energy-releasing reactions, but the entropy in sample A is greater because deltaG is more negative in sample B
Which of the diagrams depicts the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction...
C) [Logarithmic]
Enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline pH are represented by which of the following graphs?
B) 2 only
Graphs representing enzymes sensitive to changes in pH include which of the following?
D) 1, 2, and 3 only
The most likely explanation for the results shown in Graph 1 is that
A) pH affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme
Which of the following best describes why the disks rose to the surface faster in the more concentrated hydrogen peroxide solutions?
D) The higher substrate concentrations in the more concentrated solutions speeded the reaction
Which of the following experimental designs should the students use as a control?
A) Place a catalase-soaked disk in a beaker of water
Which of the following best describes why ice was used during this experiment?
B) To prevent the breakdown of the enzyme
How many more times active is PFK in cells...
2.5 times
Which of the following correctly illustrates a dipeptide and an amino acid...
A) [O, C, OH facing H]
Which of the following graphs best illustrates a likely result of the experiment?
B) [Carbs and lipids equal, Proteins and amino acids before higher]
Which of the following radio-labeled precursors is most appropriate for the researcher to use?
B) 14C-labeled CO2
The tertiary structure and function of a polypeptide is principally determined by the
D) Interactions between amino acids present in the polypeptide
HBB gene...such a mutation would most likely result in altered
A) All properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules
In which nutrient is the plant most likely deficient?
B) Nitrogen
The unknown molecule should be classified as which type of molecule?
D) A nucleic acid
Which statement best explains this reaction?
B) This is a dehydration synthesis reaction because a hydrogen atom is removed from one amino acid and a hydroxyl group is removed from the other amino acid in order to from the dipeptide.
Which of the following...molecular building blocks essential for life?
B) The nitrogen gas and ammonia gas
Which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
C) DNA
In most freshwater fish, nitrogenous waste is primarily excreted as ammonia, which is highly soluble in water and is toxic at low concentrations. In terrestrial mammals, ammonia is converted to urea before it is excreted. Urea is also highly soluble in water but is less toxic than ammonia at low concentrations. Which of the following best explains why freshwater fish do not convert ammonia to urea for excretion?
b. The dilution of ammonia by direct excretion into freshwater conserves energy

Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in maintaining homeostasis in mammals. ADH is released from the hypothalamus in response to high tissue osmolarity. In response to ADH, the collecting duct and distal tubule in the kidney become more permeable to water, which increases water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount of hormone released is controlled by a negative feedback loop.Based on the model presented, which of the following statements expresses the proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
a. As tissue osmolarity RISES, MORE ADH is released, causing LESS water to be excreted as urine.

When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the skin, an action potential is propagated along a neuron to the brain, where another signal is sent back to the muscle for a response. Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon?
d. The action potential causes a release of neurotransmitters that travel across the synapse.

Which of the following diagrams correctly identifies both the structure of neurons and the direction of information flow between neurons
option 4

The illustration above depicts a neuromuscular junction of a patient with an autoimmune disorder. Acetylcholine is a stimulatory neurotransmitter. Which of the following would be the most likely result of the continued presence of the antibody?
b. A decrease in action potentials in the muscle, causing muscle weakness and fatigue

Which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
a. It speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator.

The table above shows the types and properties of nitrogen-containing wastes produced by several vertebrates. Which of the following is the best explanation of the data?
d. Ammonia secretion requires a large volume of water and was therefore selected against in terrestrial vertebrates

Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ions best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
a.
The diagram above depicts the response to a pinprick (stimulus) on the tip of a human finger. The arrows show the direction of impulse transmission along the labeled axons. If axon II was damaged before the pinprick, which of the following is most likely?
c. The person's finger will not withdraw reflexively.

Use the following image to identify the stages that occur during osmoregulation and excretion in the functional unit of the kidney, the nephron.
Filtration
Reabsorption
Secretion
Excretion

Why did the insecticide cause uncontrollable twitching in the roaches?
c. The insecticide caused continuous stimulation of the muscles
Since pesticides affect humans in a manner similar to that of roaches, it would be valid to conclude that
b. The mechanism of stimulating skeletal muscle contraction must be similar in humans and roaches
What is the likely advantage of expending this energy to actively pump these ions back into the blood at this point in the loop?
b. Increasing the osmolarity at this point allows water to be reabsorbed passively through osmosis from the descending loop
Label the following structures of a neuron.
Dendrites
Cell Body
Axon
Axon Terminal
Synapse
A dog is following the scent of a jack rabbit, which of the following accurately describes how the dog's brain integrates information for smell?
B. chemoreceptor cells in the nasal cavity send impulses to the brain
Thrips population feed on pollen. Their population fluctuates dramatically throughout the seasons, due to food production. What would be good data for scientists to collect?
C. density of pollen produced
If ATP breakdown (hydrolysis) is inhibited, which of the following moments across a cell membrane is also inhibited?
C. Passage of solute against it's concentration gradient
A population decreases dramatically due to a landslide. What will probably happen to the remaining population now?
B. The reduced population will have aellelic frequencies that differ from the original population
Which of the following questions is most relevant to understanding the calvin cycle?
C. How is ATP used in the formation of 3-carbon carbohydrates?
After exercise, the athlete's blood has dropped below the normal level. How will the normal blood pH be restored?
D. An in crease in breathing rate will lead to a decrease in blood CO2 and H+ concentration
Which of the following has the most observed beetles per culture dish?
C. T. castaneum at 100 days
Which data is most strongly supported for the Tribolium populations?
B. T.castaneum is adversely affected while T.confusum is not
In the first graph of Tribolium, the difference between the two curves can best be attributed to what?
D. Natural variation among populations
If the experiment were continued for 500 more days, at what number would the T. Castaneum w/ parasite stabilize at?
B. 10 beetles per culture dish
Which of the following best explains the role of apoptosis in remodeling of the forelimb?
B. Apoptosis involves the regulated activation of PROTIENS in specific cells of the developing forelimb, that lead to the death of those cells
What causes increased oxygen concentration in the day, and a decrease at night?
D. PHOTOSYNTHESIS produces more oxygen then is consumed by respiration in the day
The divergence between the two populations of Rhagoletics must have occurred fast because...
A. APPLE trees were imported to America 200 years ago
Which of the following isolating mechanisms would have been the most important in preventing the gene flow between the two Rhagoletic populations?
B. temporal isolation
When the two populations of Rhagoletics do mate, their eggs rarely hatch. What form of isolation is this?
C. Reduced hybrid fertility
Which of the following explains the change in fur color phenotypes in the mouse population?
B. the field was composed of primarily light colored soil and vegetation, which favored the gray colored mice
Which of the following is most likely to improve the long-term survival of amphibians?
D. building ponds in the dry land areas to promote interbreeding
If the axon (nerve) was damaged before a finger was pricked, what would happen?
D. the person can't transmit nerve impulses to the brain
Phytoplankton are consumed by
zooplankton, which in turn are eaten by codfish. In years when there is more open water (less ice coverage), there
are more zooplankton and fish than in years with less open water (more ice coverage). Based on the graph above,
the difference is most likely because
C. the ice blocks the light, so the phytoplankton can't prefrom photosynthesis
The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal
of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this
increase?
D. decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion
Which of the following provides the best indication
that light is required for the activation of electron
transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
C. repeating the experiment at night
Which of the following can be reasonably
concluded from the experimental results?
D. light from a lamp can be substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes
If an additional sample containing the
chloroplast/DCPIP solution was placed at a
distance of 90 cm from the lamp, which of the
following predictions would be most consistent
with the experimental results?
C. the change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.
Which of the following descriptions of
photosynthesis best explains the results of the
experiment?
A. the availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP, depends on light energy
Which of the following scientific questions could
be investigated using a similar experimental setup?
B. what wavelengths of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
The figure above shows a model of a ligand precursor being cleaved to produce an active ligand that binds to a
specific receptor. Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
D. a mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution on a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in the ligand binding site of the receptor
Students in a class measured the mass of various living organisms. They then kept the organisms in the dark for 24
hours before remeasuring them. None of the organisms were provided with nutrients during the 24-hour period. Which of the following is the best explanation for the pattern of change in mass of the organisms over time?
B. Cellular respiration
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in
maintaining homeostasis in mammals. ADH is
released from the hypothalamus in response to high
tissue osmolarity. In response to ADH, the
collecting duct and distal tubule in the kidney
become more permeable to water, which increases
water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount
of hormone released is controlled by a negative
feedback loop. Based on the model presented,
which of the following statements expresses the
proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH
release, and urine production?
A. As tissue osmolarity rises, MORE ADH is
released, causing LESS WATER to be excreted as
urine
Which of the following procedures was most likely
followed to determine the change in beak size?
C. The beak size in a large number of finches was
measured every year from 1981 to 1987
Which of the following statements might best
explain the increase in average beak size in the
finch population during the drought?
A. Finches with bigger beaks are better able to
crack thick-walled seeds and produce more
surviving offspring
Which of the following best describes the
mechanism behind the change in beak size in
the finch population?
B. A change in gene frequencies in the finch
population due to selective pressure from the
environmental change
The biologist discovered that from 1988 to 1993,
the average beak size declined to pre-1981 levels.
The reversal in beak size from 1988 to 1993 was
most likely related to which of the following
events?
B. end of the drought
In a hypothetical population of beetles, there is a wide variety of color, matching the range of coloration of the tree
trunks on which the beetles hide from predators. The graphs below illustrate four possible changes to the beetle
population as a result of a change in the environment due to pollution that darkened the tree trunks.Which of the following includes the most likely change in the coloration of the beetle population after pollution
and a correct rationale for the change?
D. coloration shifted towards more dark colored beetles as in graph IV. light colored beetles were more easily found by predators.
The area covered by tropical rain forest is reduced by millions of hectares per year due to agriculture and logging.
Which of the following best describes a likely result of tropical rain forest deforestation?
A. Populations of plants and animals will decrease as more rain forest disappears, leading to
a decrease in biodiversity.
The diagram above shows the progression of ecological events after a fire in a particular ecosystem. Based on the
diagram, which of the following best explains why the oak trees are later replaced by other trees?
A) Eventually the other trees grow taller than the oak trees and forms a dense canopy that shades the understory.
In most freshwater fish, nitrogenous waste is
primarily excreted as ammonia, which is highly
soluble in water and is toxic at lowconcentrations.
In terrestrial mammals, ammonia is converted to
urea before it is excreted. Urea is also highly
soluble in water but is less toxic than ammonia at
low concentrations. Which of the following best
explains why freshwater fish do not convert
ammonia to urea for excretion?
A. the metabolic pathways of fish don't involve nitrogen consumption
Based on the information presented, which of the following describes the most likely role of ADH in maintaining blood osmolarity?
B- ADH promotes an increase in the movement of water into the bloodstream.
Which of the following is likely true of cell signaling?
C- Similar cell signaling pathways in diverse eukaryotes are evidence of conserved evolutionary processes.
Which of the following statements best helps explain how cell surface proteins, such as MHC proteins and T cell receptors, mediate cell communication over short distances?
C- The proteins interact directly with proteins on the surfaces of other cells.
Which of the following statements best explains Delta's role in regulating cell communication through the Notch signaling pathway?
C- Delta restricts cell communication to short distances within a developing embryo.
An explanation of how plant cells communicate across cell walls will most likely refer to the diffusion through plasmodesmata of which of the following?
D- Small, water-soluble molecules
The transmission of information from sensory neurons to interneurons typically involves the
B- release of chemical messengers into the space between the axon of the sensory neuron and the plasma membrane of the interneuron
Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon?
D- The action potential causes a release of neurotransmitters that travel across the synapse.
Which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
A- It speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator.
Which of the following best explains how small molecules move between adjacent cells in a plant shoot?
B- The molecules pass freely through plasmodesmata, which are cytoplasmic strands connecting two cells.
Which of the following is most likely an immediate effect of a starvation-induced increase in cortisol secretion?
D- Increased mobilization of fatty acids from fat cells
Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
A- Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP.
Which of the following statements best describes the role of adenylyl cyclase in the epinephrine signaling pathway?
C- It accelerates the production of a second messenger.
Based on the model presented, which of the following statements expresses the proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
A- As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine.
Which of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
D- Activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets.
Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
B- After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
A human cell in prophase of mitosis can be distinguished from a human cell in prophase I of meiosis by the presence of
E- paired homologous chromosomes in the meiotic cell
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
B- Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?
C- A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase.
During mitosis, which of the following normally occurs?
B- Replicated chromosomes line up on the equatorial plate.
Which of the following best predicts how GSK3β mutations can lead to the development of cancer?
A- Cells with inactive GSK3β fail to trigger apoptosis.
Which of the following conditions will most likely cause a normal body cell to become a cancer cell?
D- The environment contains mutagens that induce mutations that affect cell-cycle regulator proteins.
Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared to normal, healthy cells?
A- Shorter cell cycle
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the
C- condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells
Which of the following best describes the role of mitosis in the cell cycle?
A- Distributing replicated chromosomes to daughter nuclei
Which of the following is true of mitosis?
B- It maintains the same chromosome number in the daughter cells as in the parent cell.
Based on Figure 1, what percent of the time required to complete a full cycle do the cells typically spend in interphase?
D- 95%
which of the following occurs during mitosis but not during meiosis?
the chromatids of each chromosome are separated.
most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following when compared to normal, healthy cell?
shorted cell cycle
if these cells had been dividing randomly, it could be reasonably concluded that?
interphase is the longest stage of the cell cycle.
which of the following best describes the cells that result from the process of meiosis in mammals?
They are genetically identical to all the other cells in the body.
The diagram above illustrates which of the following processes?
Crossing-over
Which of the following is true about mitosis?
It maintains the same number of chromosomes in the daughter cells as in the parent
typical of prokaryotic cells after fission?
Circular Chromosome
Eukaryotic cells at prophase of mitosis?
Unpaired replicated linear chromosomes
Eukaryotic cells at metaphase I
Paired replicated linear chromosome
Red algea can grow at grater ocean depths than most other algea can because red algea are?
Specialized for abosorbing red wavelengths of light for photosynthesis
Process in which O2 is released as a by-product of oxidation-reduction reactions
Light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis
observation of the direction of the nerve impulse supports the conclucion that fiber is?
an axon
Process in which CO2 is released as a by-product of oxidation-reduction reactions
Citric Acid Cycle(krebs cycle)
which of the following statements is true about the neurotransmitter used to transmit the impulse at the synapse?
it is released by fiber x when an impulse travels the length of fiber x
which of the following is least likely to result in a release of epinephrine (adrenaline) from the adrenal glands?
falling asleep during a lecture
which 0f the following occurs when in response to a rise in the blood sugar level?
beta cells in the pancreas release insulin.
which of the following causes the rapid change of membrane polarity during an action potential?
diffusion of positively charged ions across the cell membrane.
The fluctuation in blood pressure shown in section I is caused by?
systole-diastole cycle
the changes in velocity of blood flow seen in section II are most directly influenced by which of the following?
The cross-sectional are of vessels
In mammals, a decrease in body temperature results un which of the following response?
blood vesicles close to the surfaces if the skin constrict.
from the perspective of the cell receiving the messages, the three stages of cell signaling are?
signal reception, signal transduction, and cellular response.
Most photosynthesis in typical C3 angiospems(Average plants) takes place in the
Spongy mesophyll
which of the following is the correct sequence of events in an action potential after stimulation of a neuron?
Na+ moves in; K+ moves out.
An airtight, temperature controlled glass box containing actively growing tomatoe plants was placed under light source. Plastic wrapping that only transmit green light was placed over the box and two days later air smaples from inside the box were collected and analyzed.The most likely changes in air quality is?
An increase in carbon dioxide
Based on the data shown,changes in the light intensity resulted in changes in the rate of which of the following processes?
photosynthesis
The rate of oxygen production equaled the rate of oxygen consumption during which of the following time periods?
J to K
A scientist studying the oxygen concentration in sealed chambers containing cultured plant cells finds that when the chambers are illuminated, the concentration of oxygen increases, however, when the chambers are kept in the dark, the concentration of oxygen decreases. Why does the oxygen concentration decrease when the chamber is kept in the dark?
Plant cell mitochondria consume oxygen by aerobic respiration
Milk kept part the expiration date often spoils, taste sour, and dvelops stringy curds. This can be explained by which of the following?
Bacteria produce lactid acid, which lowers the pH and denatures the milk products
An increase in the rate of oxygen production by algea would be accompanied by a comparable increase in the rate of production of which of the following substances?
C6H12O6
which of the following is true of intercellular junctions, ushc as tight junctuion,desmosomes, and gap juctions?
they help to intagrate cells into a functioning unit.
what are scaffolding proteins?
large molecules to which several relay proteins attach to facilitate cascade effects
ATP is produced in all f the following EXCEPT
The Calvin Cycle
The energy required to run the calvin cycle reactions of photosynthesis comes from which two substances produced during the light-dependent reactions?
ATP and NADPH
all of the following statements about neurotransmitters are generally true except?
they are actively transported across the synaptic cleft.
in humans, the HIV virus primarily attacks which of the following types of cells?
white blood cells
Carbon Dioxide is transported in human blood primarly in which of the following ways?
as bicarbonate ions
Process in which sugar oxidized to pyruvic acid (Pyruvate)
Glycolysis
Process found in both photosynthesis and cellular respiration?
Chemiosmosis
Process in which carbon from Co2 is incorporated into organic molecules?
Calvin Cycle ( Light independent reactions of photosynthesis
a patient has had a serious accident and lost a lot of blood. in an attempt to replenish body fluids, distilled water, equal to the volume of blood lost, is transferred directly into one of his veins. what will be the most probable result of this transfusion?
the patient's red blood cells will swell because the blood fluid is hypotonic compared to the cells.
which of the following components of the cell membrane is responsible for active transport?
protein
when a substrate moves across the plasma membrane along a concentration gradient at a rate faster than would be expected by simple diffusion alone but without the expenditure of metabolic energy, the process is best described as?
facilitated diffusion
glucose diffuses slowly through artificial phospholipid bilayer. the cells lining the small intestine, however, rapidly move large quantities of glucose from the glucose-rich food into their glucose-poor cytoplasm. using this information, which transport mechanism is most probably functioning in the intestinal cells?
facilitated diffusion.
which of the following correctly shows the order in which protein x moves through the cell?
endoplasmic reticulum->Golgi apparatus-> lysosome
the same procedure was repeated with a second protein (protein Y). if the function of Y is protein processing and packaging, the most radioactivity would be found in the ?
Golgi apparatus
in graphing the data from this experiment, the sampling time would be shown on the x-axis because?
sampling time is the independent variable
when atp releases some energy, it also releases inorganic phosphate. what purpose does this serve ( if any) in the cell?
it can enter the nucleus to affect gene expression
which of the following depicts the most probable pathway of processing and packaging a secretory protein within a eukaryotic cell?
rough endoplasmic reticulum->Golgi body->secretory vesicles-> cell membrane.
the contents of which dialysis tube are initially isotonic to the distilled water in the beaker?
5
a net movement of water into the beaker occurs in which of the following dialysis tubes?
6
to model a plant cell, a permeable, nonflexible case is placed around each piece of dialysis tubing. the greatest pressure potential will develop within dialysis tube number?
4
if atp breakdown is inhibited, which of the following types of movement across cell membrane is also inhibited?
passage of a solute against its concentration gradient.
cell fraction?
separates cells into their component parts
which type of cell is most likely to have the most mitochondria?
muscle cells in the leg of a marathon runner
consider the currently accepted fluid mosaic model of the plasma membrane. where in the plasma membrane would cholesterol most likely be found?
in the interior of the membrane.
which of the following is correct concerning a spherical cell?
as the diameter decreases, the surface to volume ratio increases.
in order for a protein to be an integral membrane protein it would have to be which of the following ?
amphipathic ( both hydrophilic and hydrophobic)
what kinds of molecules pass through a cell membrane most easily?
small and hydrophobic
a prokaryotic cell has which of the following?
plasma membrane
which of the following occurs in the tissue that is placed in 0.6 M sucrose?
the volume of the cytoplasm increases.
which of the following biological compounds include oxygen, chitin, cellulose, and glucose?
carbohydrates
the synthesis of protein or carbohydrates polymers always produces which of the following as a byproduct ?
water
which of the following is most directly responsible for water's unique properties?
it forms hydrogen bonds
which of the following biological compounds is used for insulation and buoyancy in marine arctic animals ?
lipids
which of the following biological compounds is used to carry the genetic code?
nucleic acids
which two functional groups are always found in amino acids?
carboxyl and amine
the process by which protein confirmation is lost or broken down is?
denaturation
in a single molecule of water, two hydrogen atoms are bonded to a single oxygen atom by?
polar covalent bonds
which of the following is responsible for the cohesive property of water?
hydrogen bonds between the oxygen atom of one water molecule and a hydrogen atom od another water molecule
In table II, the F1 offspring of the cross between broad=leaved, white-flowered plants with narrow-leaved, purple-flowered plants have a phenotype that differs from either parent. However, many test cross offspring have the same phenotype as one of the two plants in the parental cross, but relatively few test cross offspring have the same phenotype as the F1 offspring. which of the following best explains the observation?
Recombination between the leaf shape and flower color genes resulted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes
A new mutation that arose in one copy of a gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation directly caused the tumor?
Protein X normally stimulates cell division, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared dot normal, healthy cells?
Shorter cell cycle
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules ad individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell
If mammalian cells receive the go-ahaed signal at the G1 checkpoint, they will
Complete the cycle and divide
A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news has caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
Were our parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
Taxol is an anticancer drug extracted form the Pacific yew tree. In animal cells, taxol disrupts microtubule formation by binding to microtubules and accelerating their assembly from a protein precursor, tubulin. Surprisingly, this stops mitosis. Specifically, taxol must affect
The fibers of the mitotic spindle
Which of the following can be diagnosed by examining a karyotype of an individual's skin cells?
Down Syndrome
Cancer can result form a variety of mutational events. Which of the following is least likely to reslult in the initiation of a cancerous tumor
A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the retrogression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the
Condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells
What was the most significant result Gregor Mendel drew form his experiments with pea plants?
Traits are inherited in discrete units, and are not the result of "blending"
Which of the following occurs in all species of living organisms and may lead to an increase in genetic variation?
Mutations in the Genome
A man who has an X-linked allele will pass it on to
All his daughters
Asexual reproduction of a diploid organism would
produce identical offspring
In humans, clear gender differentiation occurs, not at fertilization, but after the second month of gestation. what is the first event of this differentiation?
Activation of the SRY in male embryose and musculinization of the gonads
(A woman who has blood type A positive has a daughter who is type O positive and a son who is type B negative.)
Which of the following is a possible genotype for the son
IB i
(A woman who has blood type A positive has a daughter who is type O positive and a son who is type B negative.)
Which of the following is a possible genotype for the mother?
IA i
The rhythmic changes in cyclin concentration in a cell cycle are due to
its degradation, which is initiated by active MPF
A female tortoiseshell cat is heterogeneous for the gene that determines black or orange coat color, which is located on the X chromosome. A male tortoiseshell cat
Must have resulted form a nondisjunction and has a Barr body in his cells
A severe dose of x-ray radiation results in conditions such as anemia, atypical sperm production, and a depressed immune system because the cells affected
a. are the largest cells in the body
b. contain more protein than any other cells in the body
c. are the most actively dividing cells in the body
d. are fully differentiated
e. contain pigments that reflect radiation
are the most actively dividing cells in the body
Cytokinesis is the portion of the cell cycle during which
a. the nuclear membrane breaks down
b. the amount of DNA per chromosome doubles
c. a cell plate is formed in plant cells
d. centromeres uncouple and chromatids separate
e. the growth of cells is momentarily arrested in the G2 stage
a cell plate is formed in plant cells
Prokaryotes differ from eukaryotes in that only the prokaryotes contain
a. chromosomes enclosed within a nuclear envelope
b. mitochondria in which glucose is oxidized
c. photosynthetic pigments in plastids
d. plasma membranes surrounding the cytoplasm
e. DNA that is not bound to histone protein
DNA that is not bound to histone protein
To observe the process of mitosis in plant root cells, a biologist should examine the plant's
a. root cap
b. zone of maturation
c. Casparian strip
d. apical meristem
e. root hairs
apical meristem
A biologist counted 2,500 cells from an embryo on a microscope slide and recorded the following data (data). If these cells had been dividing randomly, it could be reasonably concluded that
a. metaphase is the shortest stage of the cell cycle
b. the chromosomes can first be seen in prophase
c. the duration of anaphase is approximately, one-half that of teleophase
d. interphase is the longest stage of the cell cycle
e. prophase is approximately three times as long as telophase
interphase is the longest stage of the cell cycle
Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared to normal, healthy cells?
a. Shorter cell cycle
b. Higher rates of protein translation
c. Identical DNA
d. More carefully regulated rates of cell division
e. Lower rates of mitosis
Shorter cell cycle
The rate of division of most vertebrate cells is LEAST likely to be influenced by which of the following?
a. The cell's photoperiod
b. The temperature of the organism
c. The availability of nutrients
d. Contact with other cells
e. Compounds that inhibit protein synthesis
The cell's photoperiod
In dogs, one pair of alleles determines coat color..........
Which of the following is probably the genotype of the dark, short-haired parent in cross I
a. CCbb
b. CCBB
c. ccbb
d. CcBb
CCBB
In dogs, one pair of alleles determines coat color........
In cross II, the genotype of the dark short-haired parent is
a. CCbb
b. CcBb
c. CCBB
d. ccbb
CcBb
In dogs, one pair of alleles determines coat color .......
Which of the following correctly describes the relationship of the dark coat color allele to the albino condition?
a. It is codominant
b. It is polygenic inheritance pattern
c. It is recessive
d. It is dominant
its dominant
If the type O individual were to mate with a person with type AB blood, which of the following is the best calculation of the ratio of the offspring?
a. 2 IAi : 1 IBi
b. 1 IAi : 1 IBi
c. 1 IAi : 2IAIB : 1 IBi
d. 3 IAi : 1 IBi
1 IAi : 1 IBi
The restoration of the diploid chromosome number after halving in meiosis is due to
a. fertilization
b. DNA replication
c. synapsis
d. mitosis
fertilization
During the first meiotic division (meiosis I),
a. crossing over between nonsister chromatids occurs
b. the chromosome number becomes haploid
c. homologous chromosomes separate
d. all of the above occur
all of the above occur
In rabbits, the trait for short hair (S) is dominant, and the trait for long hair (s) is recessive. The trait for green eyes (G) is dominant and the trait for blue eyes (g) is recessive. A cross between 2 rabbits produces a litter of 6 short-haired rabbits with green eyes, and 2 short-haired rabbits with blue eyes. What is the most likely genotype of the parent rabbits in this cross?
a. SsGg x SsGg
b. SsGg x SSGg
c. SSGG x SSGG
d. ssgg x ssgg
SsGg x SSGg
Which of the following explains a significantly low rate of crossing over between two genes?
a. They are located on separate but homologous chromosomes.
b. The genes are located very close together on the same chromosome.
c. They are located far apart on the same chromosome.
d. The genes code for proteins that have similar functions.
The genes are located very close together on the same chromosome.
This is the mode of inheritance of the ABO blood group
a. pleiotrophy
b. multiple alleles
c. sex linkage
d. polygenic inheritance
multiple alleles
Which of the following is NOT true of meiosis?\
a. The homologous chromosomes line up along the metaphase plate, or equator of the cell
b. During metaphase, spindle microtubules first come into contact with chromosomes
c. The chromosome number in the newly formed cells is half that of the parent cell.
d. The cytoplasm of the cell and all its organelles are divided approximately in half
During metaphase, spindle microtubules first come into contact with chromosomes
Which of the following is NOT true of homologous chromosomes?
a. they behave independently in mitosis
b. they travel together to the metaphase plate in prometaphase of meiosis I
c. they synapse during the S phase of meiosis
d. each parent comtributes one set of homologous chromosomes to an offspring
they synapse during the S phase of meiosis
The data were obtained from a study of the length of time spent in each phase of the cell cycle by cells of three eukaryotic organisms designated beta, delta, and gamma.

Of the following, the best conclusion concerning the difference between the S phases for beta and gamma is that
a. beta is a plant cell and gamma is an animal cell.
b. beta and gamma contain the same amount of DNA.
c. gamma contains 48 times more DNA and RNA than beta.
d. beta contains more RNA than gamma.
e. gamma contains more DNA than beta.
gamma contains more DNA than beta.
The data were obtained from a study of the length of time spent in each phase of the cell cycle by cells of three eukaryotic organisms designated beta, delta, and gamma.

The best conclusion concerning delta is that the cells
a. divide in the G1 phase.
b. contain no RNA.
c. contain no DNA.
d. contain only one chromosome that is very short.
e. are actually in the G0 phase.
are actually in the G0 phase.
Regarding mitosis and cytokinesis, one difference between higher plants and animals is that in plants
a. a cell plate begins to form at telophase, whereas animals a cleavage furrow is initiated at that stage.
b. spindle poles contain centrioles, whereas spindle poles in animals do not.
c. chromosomes become attached to the spindle at prophase, whereas in animals chromosomes do not become attached until anaphase.
d. the spindles contain microfibrils in addition to microtubules, whereas animal spindles do not contain microfibrils.
e. sister chromatids are identical, but they differ from one another in animals.
a cell plate begins to form at telophase, whereas animals a cleavage furrow is initiated at that stage.
The correct sequence of steps in the M phase of the cell cycle is
a. prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase, cytokinesis.
b. prophase, cytokinesis, telophase, metaphase, anaphase.
c. metaphase, prophase, anaphase, telophase.
d. metaphase, anaphase, telophase, prophase.
e. cytokinesis, prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase.
prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase, cytokinesis
Cells that are in a nondividing state are in which phase?
a. G2
b. M
c. G1
d. G0
e. S
G0
DNA is replicated at this time of the cell cycle.
A. G0
B. G1
C. S
D. G2
E. M
S
Proteins that are involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, and that show fluctuations in concentration during the cell cycle, are called
a. kinetochores.
b. cyclins.
c. centrioles.
d. proton pumps.
e. ATPases.
cyclins
All of the following are differences between mitosis and meiosis of the M phase Except.
a. genetic makeup of the daughter cells
b. number of daughter cells produced
c. end in cytokinesis
d. number of divisions
e. reason for the division
end in cytokinesis
Asexual reproduction and sexual reproduction are different in that
a. individuals reproducing asexually transmit 100% of their genes to their progeny, whereas individuals reproducing sexually only transmit 50%.
b. asexual reproduction produces offspring that are genetically identical to the parents, whereas sexual reproduction gives rise to genetically distinct offspring.
c. asexual reproduction involves a single parent, whereas sexual reproduction involves two.
d. asexual reproduction only requires mitosis, whereas sexual reproduction always involves meiosis.
e. all of the above
all of the above
Which of the following happens at the conclusion of meiosis I?
a. Sister chromatids are separated.
b. The sperm cells elongate to form a head and a tail end.
c. Homologous chromosomes are separated.
d. Four daughter cells are formed.
e. The chromosome number is conserved.
Homologous chromosomes are separated.
Crossing over occurs during which phase of meiosis?
a. telophase I
b. metaphase II
c. prophase II
d. prophase I
e. anaphase I
prophase I
Which diagram represents prophase I of meiosis?
a. I
b. V
c. IV
d. II
e. III
IV
Which drawing represents a stage of meiosis in which independent assortment might occur if there were more than one pair of chromosomes represented?
a. I
b. V
c. IV
d. II
e. III
I
A 9:3:3:1 phenotypic ratio is characteristic of which of the following?
a. a monohybrid cross
b. a dihybrid cross
c. a trihybrid cross
d. linked genes
e. both A and D
a dihybrid cross
A woman who has blood type A, has a daughter who is type O and a son who is type B.

Which of the following is a possible genotype for the son?
a. IBi
b. IAIA
c. ii
d. IBIB
e. IBIA
IBi
the ability of a single gene to have multiple phenotypic effects
A. incomplete dominance
B. multiple alleles
C. pleiotropy
D. epistasis
pleiotropy
the ABO blood group system
A. incomplete dominance
B. multiple alleles
C. pleiotropy
D. epistasis
multiple alleles
the phenotype of the heterozygote differs from the phenotypes of both homozygotes
A. incomplete dominance
B. multiple alleles
C. pleiotropy
D. epistasis
incomplete dominance
cystic fibrosis affects the lungs, the pancreas, the digestive system, and other organs, resulting in symptoms ranging from breathing difficulties to recurrent infections
A. incomplete dominance
B. multiple alleles
C. pleiotropy
D. epistasis
pleiotropy
Karyotype preparation involve which of the following?
a. cells chemically stopped in metaphase
b. cells chemically stopped in G2 phase
c. cells chemically stopped in meiosis I
d. cells chemically stopped in S phase
cells chemically stopped in metaphase
Chemical signal pathways
a. often involve the binding of signal molecules to a protein on the surface of a target cell.
b. operate in animals, but not in plants.
c. are absent in bacteria, but are plentiful in yeast.
d. use hydrophilic molecules to activate enzymes.
often involve the binding of signal molecules to a protein on the surface of a target cell.
You isolate DNA from three different cell types of an organism, determine the relative DNA content for each type, and plot the results on the graph shown in the figure below. Refer to the graph to answer the following questions.

Which sample might represent an animal cell in G2 phase of the cell cycle?
a. II
b. I
c. both I and II
d. II
II
You isolate DNA from three different cell types of an organism, determine the relative DNA content for each type, and plot the results on the graph shown in the figure below. Refer to the graph to answer the following questions.

Which sample might represent a sperm cell?
a. either I or II
b. III
c. I
d. II
III
Three babies were mixed up in a hospital. After consideration of the data below, which of the following represent the correct baby and parent combinations?
a. I-2, II-1, III-3
b. I-3, II-1, III-2
c. I-1, II-3, III-2
d. I-2, II-3, III-1
I-2, II-3, III-1
A cell containing 92 chromatids at metaphase of mitosis would, at its completion, produce two nuclei containing how many chromosomes?
a. 23
b. 16
c. 46
d. 12
46
Density-dependent inhibition is explained by which of the following?
a. As cells become more numerous, the amount of required growth factors and nutrients per cell becomes insufficient to allow for cell growth.
b. As cells become more numerous, they begin to squeeze against each other, restricting their size and ability to produce control factors.
c. As cells become more numerous, the protein kinases they produce begin to compete with each other, such that the proteins produced by one cell essentially cancel those produced by its neighbor.
d. As cells become more numerous, more and more of them enter the S phase of the cell cycle.
As cells become more numerous, the amount of required growth factors and nutrients per cell becomes insufficient to allow for cell growth.
When crossing a homozygous recessive with a heterozygote, what is the chance of getting an offspring with the homozygous recessive phenotype?
a. 50%
b. 25%
c. 75%
d. 0%
50%
The mechanism of action of many common medication involves interfering with normal pathways that cells use to respond to hormones signals. Which of the following best describes a drug interaction that directly interferes with a signal transduction pathway?
A. A medication causes the cell to absorb more of a particular mineral, eventually poisoning the cell.
B. The medication enters the target cell and inhibits an enzyme that normally synthesizes a second messenger
C. A medication enters the target cells nucleus and acts as a mutagen.
D. A medication interrupt the transcription of ribosomal RNA genes.
B.
Which of the following component molecules of the plasma membrane is most important in the reception phase of cell signaling?
A. Protein
B. Phospholipids
C. Cholesterol
D. Carbohydrates
A.
Which of the following uses passive transport without protein channels to move materials across the cell membrane?
A. The deep polarization of a muscle cell
B. The uptake of glucose by the microvilli of cells lining the stomach
C. The movement of insulin across the cell membrane
D. The movement of carbon dioxide across the cell membrane
D.
Large molecules are moved out of the cell by which of the following processes?
A. Endocytosis
B. Exocytosis
C. Translocation
D. Passive diffusion
B.
In cell signaling, how is the flow of specific ions regulated?
A. Opening and closing of ligand-gated ion channels
B. Transduction
C. Cytoskeleton rearrangement
D. Endocytosis
A.
Which of the following processes could result in the net movement of a substance into a cell if substance is my concentrated in the cell than the surroundings?
A. Active transport
B. Facilitated diffusion
C. Diffusion
D. Osmosis
A.
What is a G protein?
A. A specific type of membrane receptor protein
B. A protein on the cytoplasmic side of a membrane that becomes activated by a receptor protein
C. A membrane-bound enzyme that converts ATP to cAMP
D. A guanine nucleotide that converts between GDP and GTP to activate and inactivate relay proteins
B.
Which of the following can activate a protein by transferring a phosphate group to it?
A. cAMP
B. G protein
C. Protein phosphatase
D. Protein kinase
D.
What kind of molecules pass through a cell membrane most easily?
A. Large and hydrophilic
B. Small and hydrophilic
C. Small and hydrophobic
D. Large and hydrophobic
E. Ions (including polyatomic ions)
C.
An important consequence of the multiple steps to make up a signal transduction cascade is that the signal becomes______?
A. Decreased
B. Controlled
C. Regulatory
D. Amplified
D.
If a hospital patient is mistakenly given an IV of pure water instead of saline solution that is isotonic to blood, the patient's red blood cells will
A. Shrink and collapse
B. Release water to the plasma along its concentration gradient
C. Absorb water from the plasma and eventually burst
D. Transport equal amounts of water across the cell membrane in both directions
C.
The solution in the arms of a U-tube are separated at the bottom of the tube by a selectively permeable membrane. The membrane is permeable to sodium chloride and water, but not to glucose. Side A is filled with a solution of 0.4 M Glucose and 0.5 M sodium chloride (NaCl), and Side B Is filled with a solution containing 0.8 M glucose and 0.4 M sodium chloride. Initially, the volume in both arms is the same. Overall at the beginning of the experiment:
A. Side A is hypertonic to side B
B. Side A is hypotonic to side B
C. Side A is isotonic to side B
D. Side A is hypertonic to side B with respect to glucose
B.
If you examine side A after 3 days, you should find
A. a decrease in the concentration of NaCl and glucose and an increase in the water level.
B. a decrease in the concentration of NaCl, an increase in water level, and no change in the concentration of
glucose.
C. no net change in the system.
D. a decrease in the concentration of NaCl and a decrease in the water level.
D.
At puberty, an adolescent female body changes in both structure and function of several organ systems, primarily under the influence of changing concentrations of estrogens and other steroid hormones. How can one hormones such as estrogen mediate so many effects?
A. Estrogen is produced in very large concentration and therefore diffuses widely
B. Estrogen has specific receptors inside several cell types, but each cell responds in the same way too it's binding
C. Estrogen is kept away from the surface of any cells not able to bind it at the surface
D. Estrogen binds to specific receptors inside many kinds of cells, each of which have different responses to its binding
D.
What would be observed by live-cell florescence microscopy Immediately after HIV entry if the red for us and lipid dye-labeled HIV membrane fuses with the target sell plasma membrane?
A. The red flowers and tie - labeled lipids will appear in the infected cells interior
B. A spot of red florescence will diffuse in the infected cells interior
C. A spot of red florescence will be visible on the infected cells plasma membrane marking the site of membrane infusion and HIV entry
D. A spot of red Florescence well remain outside the cell after delivering the viral capsid.
C
In biological membranes, the phospholipids are arranged in a_____, with the ______.
A. Single layer; fatty acids facing the interior of the cell
B. Bilayer; fatty acids facing outwards
C. Bilayer; fatty acids pointing towards each other
D. Single layer; phosphorus-containing region facing the interior of the cell
E. Bilayer; phosphorus groups in the interior of the membrane.
C.
Active transport usually moves molecules
A. In the same direction as diffusion moves them
B. In a direction opposite to the one which diffusion moves them
C. In a direction that tends to bring about equilibrium
D. From a solution with a lower pH toward one with a higher pH.
From inside the outside the cell.
B.
Five dialysis bags, constructed from a semi permeable membrane that is impermeable to sucrose, were filled with various concentrations of sucrose and then placed in separate beakers containing an initial concentration of 0.6 AM sucrose solution. At 10 minute intervals, The bags were mass in the percent change in mass of each bag was graphed

Which line in the graph represents the bag that contain a solution isotonic to the 0.6 M solution at the beginning of the experiment
A. Bag A
B. Bag B
C. Bag C
D. Bag D
E. Bag E
C.
Vitamin A is a relatively small, lipid-soluble molecule that can behave as a hormone. Most likely its receptor
A. Is an ion channel receptor
B. Is a protein kinase receptor
C. Involves a G protein
D. Is not connected to the cell membrane
E. Is highly vulnerable to antagonists
D.
Which of the following signal molecules pass to the plasma membrane and bind to the intracellular receptors that move into the nucleus and function as transcription factors to regulate gene expression?
A. Epinephrine
B. Neurotransmitters released into synapse between nerve cells
C. Yeast meeting factors alpha and beta
D. Testosterone: a steroid hormone
D.
The figure above shows a model of a ligand precursor being cleaved to produce an active ligand that binds to a specific receptor. Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
A mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution of a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in the ligand binding site of the receptor
During mitosis, which of the following normally occurs?
Tetrads form.
The mechanism of action of many common medications involves interfering with the normal pathways that cells use to respond to hormone signals. Which of the following best describes a drug interaction that directly interferes with a signal transduction pathway?
A medication enters the target cell and inhibits an enzyme that normally synthesizes a second messenger.
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP .
Based on the model of eukaryotic cell cycle regulation shown in the figure, which of the following best describes the effect of a drug that blocks the production of the mitotic cyclin?
The cell would be prevented from entering mitosis, and the cell would stop dividing.
Which of the following is true of mitosis?
t maintains the same chromosome number in the daughter cells as in the parent cell.
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
In mammals, an increase in the concentration of sodium in the blood triggers the release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) from the pituitary gland. As the concentration of sodium in the blood returns to previous levels, the release of ADH from the pituitary gland is reduced. Based on the information presented, which of the following describes the most likely role of ADH in maintaining blood osmolarity?
ADH promotes an increase in the movement of water into the bloodstream.
The transmission of information from sensory neurons to interneurons typically involves the
release of chemical messengers into the space between the axon of the sensory neuron and the plasma membrane of the interneuron
Researchers investigating the regulation of neurotransmitter release from presynaptic neurons proposed a model (Figure 1) in which CDK5, a protein expressed in axon terminals, inhibits the movement of synaptic vesicles to the presynaptic membrane.

To test their model, the researchers used a modified version of green fluorescent protein (GFP). In slightly alkaline conditions, GFP exhibits a bright green fluorescence. In acidic conditions, GFP exhibits no fluorescence. Using standard techniques, the gene encoding GFP is easily introduced into living cells. By engineering the expression of GFP* in laboratory-cultured nerve cells, the researchers found that a bright green fluorescence was exhibited only when a presynaptic neuron was given a certain stimulus.

Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
Which of the following is a valid interpretation of the experimental results that explains how individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from individuals without diabetes?
The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals.
Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared to normal, healthy cells?
Shorter cell cycle
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
Two types of cholesterol transport proteins, low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and high-density lipoproteins (HDL), bind to cholesterol and carry it through the bloodstream. Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is characterized by high cholesterol levels in the blood, which can lead to cardiovascular disease.

FH is associated with a loss-of-function mutation of a gene that encodes LDL receptors in liver cells. Individuals who are heterozygous produce lower-than-normal amounts of the LDL receptors, and individuals who are homozygous for the mutant allele have no LDL receptor function.

Individuals with FH can be treated with drugs that result in increased production of LDL receptors in liver cells. Which of the following best explains the observation that the drugs can effectively control blood cholesterol levels in individuals who are heterozygous but are not effective in individuals homozygous for the mutant allele?
There must be at least one copy of the wild-type LDL receptor allele to produce functional LDL receptors.
Steroid hormones, such as testosterone, pass through the plasma membrane and bind to an intracellular protein, as shown in the diagram below. The hormone-receptor complex then enters the nucleus, where it interacts with DNA to promote transcription of a specific gene.

Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA .
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?


A.
Expression of the structural genes will be repressed, even in the presence of lactose.


B.
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.


C.
RNA polymerase will attach at the Plac locus, but transcription will be blocked.


D.
The operator locus will code for a different protein and thereby prevent transcription of the structural gene.
B.
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?

A.
The breakdown products of lactose block cell division.

B.
Binding of DNA by the repressor would increase in the presence of lactose.

C.
Diffusion of lactose across the plasma membrane would stop in the presence of lactose.

D.
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
D.
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?

A.
Expression of the lacI gene requires lactose.

B.
RNA polymerase is rapidly degraded by the product of the lacP locus.

C.
The repressor binds to DNA only when the cellular concentration of glucose is low.

D.
The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
D.
The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?

A.
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.

B.
Beta-galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light.

C.
Ultraviolet light will cause a bond to form between glucose and galactose monomers.

D.
Ultraviolet light will cause a duplication of the lac operon.
A.
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
A student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition.

28% Adenine
20% Thymine
35% Cytosine
17% Guanine

Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?

A.
single-stranded DNA

C.
single-stranded RNA

B.
double-stranded DNA

D.
double-stranded RNA
A.
single-stranded DNA
Which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown to the right?

A.
Both processes increase genetic variation.

B.
Both processes require partitioning of genetic material and organelles.

C.
Both processes represent aspects of sexual reproduction.

D.
The amount of genetic material per cell remains constant in both processes.
A.
Both processes increase genetic variation.
Some strains of the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes secrete poisonous substances called exotoxins. The genes encoding the exotoxins are thought to have originated in bacteriophages, which are viruses that infect bacteria.

Which of the following is the most likely mechanism by which the S. pyogenes acquired the ability to produce the exotoxins?

A.
Bacteriophages engulfed cellular debris from dead bacteria.

B.
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome.

C.
Bacteriophages in the environment activated bacterial cell division.

D.
Bacteriophage proteins were absorbed into bacteria cells by endocytosis.
B.
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome.
The cells lining the respiratory tract of pigs have receptors for both avian and human influenza viruses. Based on the model above, which of the following best describes the origin of the new strain of human influenza virus?

A.
The new viral strain inherited a mixture of genetic material from both avian influenza virus and human influenza virus.

B.
The new viral strain inherited RNA molecules from the avian influenza virus and packaged them inside the human influenza virus membrane.

C.
The new viral strain inherited a mutant DNA molecule from the pig respiratory tract cell.

D.
The new viral strain inherited an RNA molecule that had recombined with a DNA molecule from the pig respiratory tract cell.
A.
The new viral strain inherited a mixture of genetic material from both avian influenza virus and human influenza virus.
The Trp operon is a coordinately regulated group of genes (trpA-trpE) that are required for tryptophan biosynthesis in E. coli. Based on the figure to the right, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?

A.
In the absence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.

B.
In the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.

C.
In the absence of tryptophan, the trpR gene is inactive, preventing the production of the repressor that blocks expression of the operon.

D.
In the presence of tryptophan, the trpR gene is inactive, preventing the production of the repressor that blocks expression of the operon.
B.
In the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) can be a serious threat to human health. There is evidence that S. aureus infections are common in hospitals and that MRSA have become resistant to other antibiotics besides methicillin. This suggests that the rapid evolution of resistance in the bacteria poses a serious public-health challenge. Which of the following best explains the ability of MRSA to evade existing drug therapies?

A.
MRSA have very long generation times and very large population sizes.

B.
MRSA develop new alleles by intentionally introducing specific mutations that will give them a selective advantage over other bacteria.

C.
MRSA metabolize many drugs in their lysosomes and therefore evolve resistance at a high rate.

D.
MRSA exchange genetic material with other antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which can spread resistance in the S. aureus population.
D.
MRSA exchange genetic material with other antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which can spread resistance in the S. aureus population.
The bacterium Vibrio cholerae is harmless unless a lysogenic bacteriophage provides the gene coding for the cholera toxin, which converts the bacterium to the virulent form that causes cholera. Which of the following best explains how the gene encoding cholera toxin becomes part of the bacterial genome?

A.
The bacteriophage inserts the toxin gene into the host cell DNA, and the gene is expressed with the rest of the host cell's genes.

B.
The bacteriophage makes copies of the toxin gene and expresses the copies inside the bacteriophage.

C.
The bacteriophage converts its toxin gene into mRNA, which is then translated by the host cell.

D.
The bacteriophage transforms itself into a self-replicating protein that can survive inside the host cell.
A.
The bacteriophage inserts the toxin gene into the host cell DNA, and the gene is expressed with the rest of the host cell's genes.
During the infection cycle for a typical retrovirus, such as HIV, which uses RNA as genetic material, the genetic variation in the resulting population of new virus particles is very high because of

A.
damage to the virus particle from envelope loss during infection

B.
recombination of the genomes of free virus particles

C.
errors introduced in the DNA molecule through reverse transcription

D.
errors in the protein molecules produced in translation
C.
errors introduced in the DNA molecule through reverse transcription
In a transformation experiment, a sample of E. coli bacteria was mixed with a plasmid containing the gene for resistance to the antibiotic ampicillin (ampr). Plasmid was not added to a second sample. Samples were plated on nutrient agar plates, some of which were supplemented with the antibiotic ampicillin. The results of E. coli growth are summarized below. The shaded area represents extensive growth of bacteria; dots represent individual colonies of bacteria.

Plates that have only ampicillin-resistant bacteria growing include which of the following?

A.
I only

B.
III only

C.
IV only

D.
I and II
C.
IV only
Plates I and III were included in the experimental design in order to

A.
demonstrate that the E. coli cultures were viable

B.
demonstrate that the plasmid can lose its ampr gene

C.
demonstrate that the plasmid is needed for E. coli growth

D.
prepare the E. coli for transformation
A.
demonstrate that the E. coli cultures were viable
Which of the following best explains why there is no growth on plate II?

A.
The initial E. coli culture was not ampicillin- resistant.

B.
The bacteria on the plate were transformed.

C.
The transformation procedure killed the bacteria.

D.
Nutrient agar inhibits E. coli growth.
A.
The initial E. coli culture was not ampicillin- resistant.
Which of the following statements best explains why there are fewer colonies on plate IV than on plate III?

A.
Plate IV is the positive control.

B.
Not all E. coli cells are successfully transformed.

C.
The bacteria on plate III did not mutate.

D.
The plasmid inhibits E. coli growth.
B.
Not all E. coli cells are successfully transformed.
In a second experiment, the plasmid contained the gene for human insulin as well as the ampr gene. Which of the following plates would have the highest percentage of bacteria that are expected to produce insulin?

A.
I only

B.
III only

C.
IV only

D.
I and III
C.
IV only
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?

A.
Expression of the lacI gene requires lactose.

B.
RNA polymerase is rapidly degraded by the product of the lacP locus.

C.
The repressor binds to DNA only when the cellular concentration of glucose is low.

D.
The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
D.
The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?

A.
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.

B.
Beta-galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light.

C.
Ultraviolet light will cause a bond to form between glucose and galactose monomers.

D.
Ultraviolet light will cause a duplication of the lac operon.
A.
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?

A.
Expression of the structural genes will be repressed, even in the presence of lactose.

B.
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.

C.
RNA polymerase will attach at the Plac locus, but transcription will be blocked.

D.
The operator locus will code for a different protein and thereby prevent transcription of the structural gene.
B.
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?

A.
The breakdown products of lactose block cell division.

B.
Diffusion of lactose across the plasma membrane would stop in the presence of lactose.

C.
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.

D.
Binding of DNA by the repressor would increase in the presence of lactose.
C.
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
Phenotype is determined, in part, by which genes are expressed. The diagram below illustrates how the product of gene X regulates the expression of other genes.

Which of the following statements best explains how protein X regulates gene expression?

A.
Protein X is responsible for processing pre-mRNA.

B.
Protein X is responsible for activating transcription of some genes but not others.

C.
Protein X is a member of some cytoplasmic protein complexes but not others.

D.
Protein X causes specific base-pair changes to produce new alleles.
B.
Protein X is responsible for activating transcription of some genes but not others.
Which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown to the right?

A.
Both processes increase genetic variation.

B.
Both processes represent aspects of sexual reproduction.

C.
Both processes require partitioning of genetic material and organelles.
D.
The amount of genetic material per cell remains constant in both processes.
A.
Both processes increase genetic variation.
Based on the model of ferritin synthesis presented in Figure 2, which of the following best describes the mechanism whereby iron most likely regulates ferritin production?

A.
Translation occurs under low intracellular iron concentration when the IRP recruits ribosomes to the ferritin mRNA.

B.
Translation occurs under low intracellular iron concentration when the IRP stabilizes the stem-loop structure in the ferritin mRNA.

C.
Translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentration when the IRP-iron complex dissociates from ferritin mRNA, permitting ribosomes access to the ferritin coding region.

D.
Translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentration when the IRP-iron complex brings the 5¢ end of the mRNA closer to the ferritin coding region.
C.
Translation occurs under high intracellular iron concentration when the IRP-iron complex dissociates from ferritin mRNA, permitting ribosomes access to the ferritin coding region.
Based on the model of ferritin synthesis presented in Figure 2, which of the following describes the role of feedback on the control of intracellular iron levels?

A.
A decrease in iron levels activates the IRP. The IRP in turn activates iron transport proteins in the cell membrane, thereby returning free iron levels to normal.

B.
A decrease in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn releases bound iron, thereby returning free iron levels to normal.

C.
An increase in iron levels activates the IRP. The IRP in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.

D.
An increase in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.
D.
An increase in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.
After a search of nucleotide sequence databases, researchers identified an IRE in the 5¢untranslated region of a gene encoding aconitase, an enzyme involved in the Krebs cycle. Which of the following pieces of experimental evidence best supports the claim that the synthesis of aconitase is controlled by a mechanism similar to ferritin regulation?

A.
IRP binds to aconitase mRNA in the presence of iron.

B.
The relative amount of aconitase protein increases in the presence of high levels of iron.

C.
Oxygen consumption by cells increases in the presence of high levels of iron.

D.
The levels of reduced electron carriers, NADH and FADH2, increase in the presence of high levels of iron.
B.
The relative amount of aconitase protein increases in the presence of high levels of iron.
Based on the data in Figure 1, the concentration of iron in the control diet used in the investigation is most likely within which of the following ranges?

A.
20-25 mg/kg

C.
70-75 mg/kg

B.
35-40 mg/kg

D.
100-125 mg/kg
C.
70-75 mg/kg
Which of the following conclusions about dietary iron and ferritin synthesis is best supported by the data in Figure 1 ?

A.
A dietary iron concentration of 25 mg/kg has no effect on ferritin gene expression compared with the control diet.

B.
At a dietary iron concentration of 50 mg/kg, rats make twice as much ferritin as rats fed the control diet do.

C.
Maximum activation of ferritin synthesis occurs at dietary iron concentrations of 75 mg/kg or greater.

D.
The maximum rate of ferritin absorption from the gut occurs at dietary iron concentrations greater than 75 mg/kg.
C.
Maximum activation of ferritin synthesis occurs at dietary iron concentrations of 75 mg/kg or greater.
Retroviruses have an RNA genome. HTLV-1 is a lysogenic retrovirus that establishes a latent infection in human cells. By which of the following mechanisms does infection by a retrovirus such as HTLV-1 most likely cause long-lasting genetic changes to host cells?

A.
The host-cell ribosomes translate the viral RNA genome that enters the cell upon initial viral infection.

B.
The viral RNA polymerase that transcribes host genes has a high error rate.

C.
The RNA viral genome is reverse transcribed into DNA that integrates into the host genome.

D.
The RNA viral genome integrates into the host genome.
C.
The RNA viral genome is reverse transcribed into DNA that integrates into the host genome.
Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon?

5' -GACCGCAUGGUGACGAAAUUUGGCCAUUAA- 3'

A.
Asp-Arg-Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His

B.
Met-Arg-Asp-Stop-His-Gly-Phe-Lys-Thr-Val

C.
Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His

D.
Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His
C.
Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His
Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
Thyroxin is a hormone that increases metabolic activities within various tissue targets. Low levels of circulating thyroxin trigger the secretion of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) from the anterior pituitary. TSH secretion then stimulates thyroxin production and release by the thyroid gland. The increased level of circulating thyroxin inhibits further secretion of TSH from the anterior pituitary. Based on the information provided, which of the following can most likely be concluded about the TSH-thyroxin loop?
The feedback mechanism would maintain relatively constant levels of thyroxin throughout tissue targets.
The rate of pyruvic acid formation fluctuates because
the reaction is affected by negative feedback
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data?
A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released.
Air is less dense at very high elevations, so less oxygen is available than in the denser air at sea level. Based on the model in Figure 1, if a person travels from sea level to a high elevation location, which of the following correctly predicts the response to the decreased blood oxygen level
More erythropoietin will be secreted from the kidneys, increasing production of erythrocytes
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
The model shown in the figure represents the role of two hormones, calcitonin and parathyroid hormone (PTH), in maintaining normal blood calcium levels in humans. If a dietary change results in an increase in blood calcium concentration above normal levels, which of the following is the most likely effect on calcium homeostasis?
Calcitonin levels will rise, thus promoting the deposit of calcium into bones.
The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in maintaining homeostasis in mammals. ADH is released from the hypothalamus in response to high tissue osmolarity. In response to ADH, the collecting duct and distal tubule in the kidney become more permeable to water, which increases water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount of hormone released is controlled by a negative feedback loop.
Based on the model presented, which of the following statements expresses the proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine.
Based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC-β cells use negative feedback to return blood glucose levels to normal if blood glucose levels increase?
Increased insulin secretion by hESC-β cells → increased glucose uptake by body cells → decreased insulin secretion by hESC-β cells
Based on the model of ferritin synthesis presented in Figure 2, which of the following describes the role of feedback on the control of intracellular iron levels?
An increase in iron levels activates synthesis of ferritin protein. Ferritin protein in turn binds iron, thereby decreasing both free iron levels and ferritin synthesis.
Damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate platelets and stimulate the formation of blood clots. Which of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
Activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets.
Cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of cyclic AMP to a different molecule. Which of the following best predicts the effect of inhibiting cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in a muscle cell stimulated by epinephrine?
Phosphorylase kinase will remain active because protein kinase A will no longer be deactivated.
the food web represented above does not include bacteria and fungi. whcih of the following best describes a consequence of having no bacteria and fungi in the food web?
grasses will have no direct access to chemical components recycled from dead organisms
the following DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading fram of the B-hemoglobin gene. Given the codon chart listed below, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
the reading frame of the sequence would shift, causeing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point
which of the following questions might scientists ask to most reliably determin if there has ever been life on Mars?
did Mars have elements present in its atmosphere to support life?
Cortisol is a hormone produced in response to stress, including starvation, in humans. Which of the following is most likely an immediate effect of a starvation induced increase in cortisol secretion?
increased mobilization of gatty acids from fat cells
which of the following is the most likely consequence of adding ciproflozacin to animal feed?
ciprofloxacin resistant strains of C. jejuni will have a selective advantage in the digestive tracts of livestock, increasing the risk of serious infection in people
the table above shows derived characters for selected organisms. Based on the information in the table, which of the following cladograms best represents the evolutionary relationships among the organisms?
Fish breaks off first
damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate platelets and stimulate the formation of blood clots. WHich of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets
based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
DNA
which of the following conclusions is best supported by the results of the experiment?
neither population grows as large when cultured together as each does when cultured separately
the difference in carrying capacity between the two species when cultured separately is closests to which of the following values?
350 individuals per 5.0 mL
which of the following statements best justifies th euse of the experimental results in an investigation of interspecies competition?
when two populations use the same sources of energy, resource availability in a shared environment limits the growth of both populations
if the mixed populations were cultured for an additional 25days, which of the following predictions would be consistent with the data?
one population would stabilize at a large size, and the other population would be eliminated from the culture
based on the experimental results, which of the following statements best describes the relationship of the two populations that were studies in the investigation?
the populations have a competitive relationship in which each species limits the ability of the other to reproduce
Percent of moths recaptured in two different environments which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
dark colored moths were more likely to be recaptured in the polluted environment than in the unpolluted environment, suggesting an increased chance of reproductive success
which of the following question about the origin of life on Earth is most scientifically testable?
can simple organic molecules form spontaneously in an oxygen free atmosphere
a microelectrode is inserted into a neruon. A voltage recorder then measure the voltage difference between the microelectrode inside the cell and an electrode placed outside the cell. Which of the following plots most accurately represents the changes in membrane protential throughout a single action potential?
positive graph with bumps going up and down
the diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true
the diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation
the graph above represents the proportions of hatchlings of certain types of reptiles that are male at different egg incubation temperatures. Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
the expression of sex determination genes in certain reptiles is influenced by temperature
which of the following modifications to the experimental design would improve the reliability of the results presented in figure 1
measuring blood glucose levels in a group of mice that were not given STZ
which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data presented in figure 1
implanted hESC-B cells are effective at regulating blood glucose levels in the absence of mouse B-cells
based on the data in figure 2, which of the following best justifies the researchers' claim that hESC-B implants can functionally replace the mouse's naturally occurring B-cells?
the mouse with an hESC-b implant successfully regulated blodd glucose levels after STZ treatment but not after the implant was removed
in contrast to type 1 diabetes, where ther is no insulin production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failture of body cells to respond normally to insulin. Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following best predicts the effectiveness of unsing hESC-B implantation to treat type 2 diabetes?
the treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-B cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells
based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC-B cells use negative feedback to return blood glucose levels to normal ig blood glucose levels increase?
increased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells --> increased glucose uptake by body cells --> decreased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells
as represented in the moel above, B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens or stimulated helper T cells (Th) Based on the model, which of the following best describes an outcome of B cell activation?
activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells
a student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition. which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
single stranded DNA
which of the following communities is likely to be most stable?
one with high species diversity
which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure?
it has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes
some blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom have become distinguishable by certain physical and behavioral traits from blackcaps that migrate to Spain. Which of the following best predicts the effect on the blackcap population if humans in the United Kingdom continue to place food in feeders during the winter?
the blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population
which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose
which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted
which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?
the lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available
bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GRP?
beta galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light
which of the following predics the most likely outcome of moving a population of guppies from a pool with pike cichilids to a pool with killifish?
after many generations, the offspring of the introduced guppies will mature at an older age and larger size because of selective pressure from the new predator
which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?
is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?
the figure above represents a rough endoplasmic reticulum. Which of the following best describes the role of the structure labeled Y?
Structure Y is the location where proteins are synthesized
in a sample of 2,400 people, 1,482 were found to have the dominant (taster) phenotype. assuming that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, approximatelt how many individuals in the sample are expected to be heterozygous for TAS2R38
1,133
which of the following scientific questions will best help researchers determine when the nontaster allele arose in the evolutionary history of the selected primates?
does the nontaster allele exiset in any nonhuman primate populations?
NUCLEOTIDE VARIATION IN THE TAS2R38 - which of the following conclusions is supported by the data
Bonobos are more closely related to humans than to gorillas because bonobos and humans share a more recent common ancestor than bonobos and gorillas do
The TAS2R38 receptor protein has been detected on the surface of cells from individuals who are homozygous for the nontaster allele of TAS2R38 gene. Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutations associated with the nontaster allele on TAS2R38 gene expression
the mutations change the primary structure of the encoded receptor protein
Which of the following best describe the likely evolution of the TAS2R38 locus in the gorilla population?
gorillas who could taste bitter toxins were more likely to survive and reproduce than nontasters
for each ion or molecule, the relative concentration on each side of the membran is indicated. Which of the following accurately describes one of the movements taking place?
Na+ transport out of the cell requires ATP hydrolysis
which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
it speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator
which of the following is the best plan for collecting data to use in a test of the hypothesis?
examining the upper part of the lower rock layer for evidence of a catastrophic event, such as the presence of shocked quartz, iridium, or soot particles
which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increased cottonwood growth on the food web?
increased cottonwood growth will provide more resources for cicadas, resulting in an increase in the kestrel population
based upon the data, which of the following best describes the effect on the timing of cicada emergence if the cottonwood ground cover decreases from 50 percent to 25 percent
cicadas will emerge approximately 10 days earlier
based on the data, which of the following describes the most likely relationship between wildfires, soil temperature, and the timing of cicada emergence in the same year?
wildfires caused a reduction in ground cover, which in turn caused increased soil temperatures leading to earlier emergence of cicadas
yellow billed cuckoos typically hatch in mid July. Emerging cicadas are a primary food source for nesting cuckoos. Which of the following best predicts the effect of wildfires on yellow billed cuckoo populations?
the yellow billed cuckoo population will decline because the cicadas will emerge before the hatching season begins
the data from the temperature controlled experimental plots can best be used to support which of the following conclusions about cicada dvelopment?
cicada nymphs mature to adults faster in warmer soil than in cooler soil
the table above shows the types and properties of nitrogen containing wastes produced by several vertebrates. Which of the following is the best evolutionary explanation of the data?
ammonia secretion requires a large volume of water and was therefore selected against in terrestrial vertebrate
the figure above shows an organelle typically found in eukaryotic cells. Which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?
the inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the intermembrane space and the matrix
which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?
noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule
which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown above?
both processes increase genetic variation
based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
a mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulation beta beta cells of the pan crease to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels
Which of the following is true
Although hormones are carries to all parts of the body, they produce effects only in cells with proper receptors
Which endocrine glands are often called the master control center
Hypothalamus and pituitary
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentration of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data
A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released
The center of conscious and intelligence is the
Cerebrum
Which of the following immune system system components is correctly matched to its function
Helper T cell: activates B cells
Multiple sclerosis is a degenerative disease that is caused by the immune response attacking the myelin sheath that surrounds the nerves of the central nervous system. How would an immunologist classify this disease
An autoimmune disorder
A group of researchers believe that they have extracted a new hormone from the cells of the pancreas. They attempt to characterize the hormone, and find it is fat soluble. Choose the most likely mechanism of action for the hormones target cells
The hormone moves into a cell and causes changes in gene expression in the nucleus
When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the skin, an action potential is propagated along a neuron to the brain, where another signal is sent back to then muscle for response.
Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon
The action potential cause a release of neurotransmitter that travel across the synapse
An effective vaccine does all of the following except
Produce passive immunity
A human kidney filter about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately 2 liters of liquid and nutrients waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolve substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. ADH is secreted in response to reduce plasma volume. ADH targets this collection ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporions into their plasma membrane and an increased reabsorption of water
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine
The barriers of invasion by microbes can involve
All of these
A dog is following the scent of a jackrabbit . Which of the following accurately describes how the dogs brain integrates information for smell
Chemoreceptors cells in the nasal cavity send impulses to the appropriate area of the brain
Control of body temperature is an example of which of the following
Both homeostatic mechanism and negative feedback system
What happens at time C of the action potential
Potassium gates close and sodium gates open
Which of the following statements are false
Once energy is utilized, it disappears
The primary purpose of the light dependent reactions is to
Provide electrons and energy for the light independent reactions
Plant cells are capable of
All of these
Some plants are adapted to avoid photorespiration. They use the_____ and _____ pathways
C4 and CAM
A high concentration of H+ in the mitochondrial compartment provides energy for the ___ by ___
Production of ATP; ATP synthesis
Why is photorespiration more likely in warm, dry weather
The stoma close to conserve water
The highly toxic cyanide poison binds to the last molecule in the electron transport chain halting additional electron transfer. What is the consequence?
All of these are consequences
A gardener is concerned that her greenhouse is getting too hot from too much light , and seeks to shade her plants with colored translucent plastic sheets. What color should she use to reduce overall light energy, but still maximize plant growth
Blue
Which hypothesis would most likely be tested using this setup
Green water plants release a gas in the presence of light
According to the data, the crickets at 25C have greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than do the crickets at 10C. This trend in oxygen consumption is the opposite of that in the mice. The difference in trends in oxygen consumption among crickets and mice is due to their
Mode of internal temperature regulation
Enzymes are protein catalysis responsible for increasing the rate at which biochemical reactions occur in a cell. Which of the following statements best describes how enzyme accomplish this task
The enzyme decreases the activation energy needed for the chemical reaction to occur
ATP
Is/ does all of these
When glucose is used as the energy source, the largest amount of ATP is produced in
Electron transfer phosphorylation
Under anaerobic condition, muscle cells produce
Lactate
The arrows in the diagram could represent the release of
Carbon dioxide from mitochondrion carrying our respiration
The primary role of oxygen in cellular respiration is to
Act as an acceptor for electrons and hydrogen, forming water
Which metabolic pathway is common to both fermentation and cellular respiration of glucose
Glycolysis
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulation beta beta cells of the pan crease to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels
The organism in the above figure would have
Few vascular system because the cells are near the surface
Which of the following is true
Although hormones are carries to all parts of the body, they produce effects only in cells with proper receptors
Which endocrine glands are often called the master control center
Hypothalamus and pituitary
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentration of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data
A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released
The center of conscious and intelligence is the
Cerebrum
Which of the following immune system system components is correctly matched to its function
Helper T cell: activates B cells
Multiple sclerosis is a degenerative disease that is caused by the immune response attacking the myelin sheath that surrounds the nerves of the central nervous system. How would an immunologist classify this disease
An autoimmune disorder
A group of researchers believe that they have extracted a new hormone from the cells of the pancreas. They attempt to characterize the hormone, and find it is fat soluble. Choose the most likely mechanism of action for the hormones target cells
The hormone moves into a cell and causes changes in gene expression in the nucleus
When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the skin, an action potential is propagated along a neuron to the brain, where another signal is sent back to then muscle for response.
Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon
The action potential cause a release of neurotransmitter that travel across the synapse
An effective vaccine does all of the following except
Produce passive immunity
A human kidney filter about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately 2 liters of liquid and nutrients waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolve substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. ADH is secreted in response to reduce plasma volume. ADH targets this collection ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporions into their plasma membrane and an increased reabsorption of water
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine
The barriers of invasion by microbes can involve
All of these
A dog is following the scent of a jackrabbit . Which of the following accurately describes how the dogs brain integrates information for smell
Chemoreceptors cells in the nasal cavity send impulses to the appropriate area of the brain
Control of body temperature is an example of which of the following
Both homeostatic mechanism and negative feedback system
What happens at time C of the action potential
Potassium gates close and sodium gates open
The two steps of transcription followed by translation
Describe the flow of information
Males tend to be more affected in greater numbers of X-linked recessive genetic disorders than are females because
Males only have one X chromosome
If a child belonged to blood type O, he or she could NOT have been produced by which set of parents
Type AB mother, type O father
Which of the following statements is true
Each of the four nucleotides in a DNA molecule has the same nitrogen- containing base
DNA and RNA are alike in
None of these
In a mutation
All of these may be true
Short hair (L) is dominant to long hair(l). If a short haired animal do unknown origin is crossed with a long haired and they produce one long haired and one short haired this indicates
The short haired animal is not pure breeding
The process illustrated in the model depicted here all result in which of the following
An increase in genetic variation
The obvious advantage of the lactose operon is that
Lactose metabolizing enzymes need not be made with lactose is not present
Which of the following best describes the genotype of individual family members in the pedigrees
Healthy individuals may possess one mutant (HbS) of the HBB gene
The observation that the rabbit mRNA was successfully translated in the frog tissue supports which of the following conclusions
Rabbits and frogs share a common genetic code for expressing heritable information
The electrophoresis results best support which of the following conclusion
Cells from different tissue share a common ability to use genetic material from a foreign source to produce protein
When an individual is subject to short-term starvation, most available food is used to provide energy rather than building blocks. Which hormone would be particularly active in times of food shortage to provide a source of energy in times of food stress?
A. Epinephrine
B. Glucagon
C. Oxytocin
D. Antidiuertic hormone
E. Insulin
B. Glucagon
What happens when beta cells of the pancreas release insulin into the blood?
A. Blood glucose levels rise to a set
point and stimulate glucagon release
B. Body cells take up more glucose
C. The liver breaks down the glycogen to glucose
D. Alpha cells are stimulated to release glucose into the blood
B. Body tells take up more glucose
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretion at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanism is best supported by the data?
A. Of the falling glucagon level causes a rise in the insulin level
B. A high glucagon level causes a rise in the insulin level
C. A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon
D. A low glucose level causes the release of insulin
C. A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon
In vertebrae animals during the process of oogenesis, one primary oogonium develops into how many functioning egg cell typically?
A. 1
B. 2
C. 4
D. 8
A. 1
How many chromosomes are in a human primary spermatocyte?
A. 23
B. 46
C. 96
B. 46
How many chromosomes are in a human spermatid?
A. 23
B. 46
C. 96
A. 23
Sperm gain full motility in the _______
A. Vas deferens
B. Epididymis
C. Seminiferous tubules
D. Interstitial cells
B. Epididymis
In human females, fertilization normally occurs in the _______ and implantation of embryo occurs in the endometrium lining the ________
A. Ovary; uterus
B. Oviduct; uterus
C. Ovary; oviduct
D. Oviduct; vagina
E. Fallopian tube; cervix
B. Oviduct; uterus
OriginalOriginalAlphabetical
a cell that contains proteins enabling a hormone to selectively bind to its plasma membrane is called a
target cell
only certain cells in the body are target cells for the steroid hormone aldosterone. which of the following is the best explanation for why these are the only cells that respond to this hormone?
only target cells contain receptors for aldosterone
which of the following glands show both endocrine and exocrine activity?
pancreas
the endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
after a meal, blood glucose levels become escalated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood...
the secretion of hormone A causes a change in the amount of protein X in an organism. If this mechanism works by positive feedback, which of the following statements represents that fact?
an increase in A produces an increase in X
The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
a decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion
Which picture below best represents how testosterone can alter gene expression of these proteins
A
When an individual is subject to short-term starvation, most available food is used to provide energy rather then building blocks. Which hormone would be particularly active in times of food stress?
glucagon
What happens when beta cells of the pancreas release insulin into the blood?
body cells take up more glucose
The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data?
a low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from the tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released
How many chromosomes are in a human primary spermatoctye
46
how many chromosomes are in a human spermatid
23
sperm gain full mobility in the
epididymis
..... Assuming the AAS function in the same way as naturally occurring testosterone. It is most likely that long-term abuse of AAS would
reduce sperm production
in vertebrae animals during the process of oogenesis, one primary oogonium develops into ___ active egg cells
1
In human females, fertilization normally occurs in the ____ and implantation occurs in the ____
oviduct, uterus
what does gastrulation accomplish
it causes inward folding of a blastula leading to the beginning of a digestive tract and three distinct germ tissue layers
Master genes that control the expression of other genes responsible for anatomical structures are called
hox genes
which of the following claims is supported by the data?
gene A promotes neuron development and gene B promotes programmed cell death in neuronal precursors
this layer gives rise to the brain and eyes
ectoderm
this layer givers rise to the lining of the digestive tract
endoderm
this later gives rise to bones and blood
mesoderm
this hormone causes labor
oxytocin
this hormone is released by the hypothalamus and stimulates anterior pituitary to release other homrones
GnRH
this hormone stimulates the development of the egg inside the growing follicle
FSH
this hormone is responsible for thickening the endometrial lining of the uterus
estrogen
this hormone stimulates sperm production
FSH
this hormone is what is used in pregnancy test
hCG
Theodor W. Engelmann illuminated a filament of algae with light that passed through a prism, thus exposing different segments of algae to different wavelengths of light. He added aerobic bacteria and then noted in which areas the bacteria congregated. He noted that the largest groups were found in the areas illuminate by the red and blue light. What did Engelmann conclude about the congregation of bacteria in the red and blue areas?
(C) Bacteria congregated in these areas because these areas had the most oxygen being released
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
(A) Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor, the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP
At puberty, an adolescent female body changes in both structure and function of several organ systems, primarily under the influence of changing concentrations of estrogen and other steroid hormones. How can one hormone, such as estrogen, mediate so many effects?
(D) Estrogen binds to specific receptors inside many kinds of cells, each of which have different responses to its binding
Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
(C) A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation
Which of the following observations provides the best evidence that photosynthesis occurred in treatment group 1?
(C) The mean pH of the samples increased after one hour
To investigate whether an organism in the study is capable of both photosynthesis and respiration, a comparison of which treatment groups is most appropriate?
(A) I and II
Which of the following is a valid interpretation of the experimental results that explains how individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from individuals without diabetes?
(A) The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals
Based on the experimental results, which of the following describes the most likely defect in the muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes?
(D) IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations
Based on the information presented, which of the following genetic changes in an individual without diabetes is most likely to result in a disrupted cellular response to insulin signaling similar to that of an individual with type 2 diabetes?
(A) A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein
To test the hypothesis that a particular plant synthesizes storage lipids by using glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (G3P) from photosynthesis, a researcher plans to use radio-labeled precursors to track the molecules through the bio-synthetic pathway. Which of the following radio-labeled precursors is most appropriate for the researcher to use?
(B) 14C-labeled CO2, because atmospheric carbon is fixed to carbohydrates by photosynthesis
The mechanism of action of many common medications involves interfering with the normal pathways that cells use to respond to hormone signals. Which of the following best describes a drug interaction that directly interferes with a signal transduction pathway?
(B) A medication enters the target cell and inhibits an enzyme that normally synthesizes a second messenger
During aerobic cellular respiration, oxygen gas is consumed at the same rate as carbon dioxide gas is produced. In order to provide accurate volumetric measurements of oxygen gas consumption, the experimental setup should include which of the following?
(D) A substance that removes carbon dioxide gas
According to the data, the mice at 10 C demonstrated greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than did the mice at 25 C. This is most likely explained by which of the following statements?
(A) The mice at 10 C had a higher rate of ATP production than the mice at 25 C.
During aerobic respiration, electrons travel downhill in which sequence?
(B) food-->NADH--> electron transport chain--> oxygen
Experimental evidence shows that the process of glycolysis is present and virtually identical in organisms from all 3 domains, Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. Which of the following hypotheses could be best supported by this evidence?
(B) Glycolysis is a universal energy-releasing process and therefore suggests a common ancestor for all forms of life.
Which of the following is characterized by a cell releasing a signal molecule into the environment, followed by a number of cell sin the immediate vicinity responding?
(C) Paracrine signaling
If water taken in by a plant is labeled with a radioactive isotope of oxygen, 18 O, then the oxygen gas released as photosynthesis proceeds is also labeled with 18 O. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
(D) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.
The figure above illustrates the similarities between ATP Synthesis in the mitochondria and chloroplast. The figure can bets assist in answering which of the following questions?
(A) Do electron transport chains create a gradient so that ATP Synthase can generate ATP molecules?
One approach to treating patients with pancreatic cancer and other cancers in which Hedgehog protein is detected is to modify the hedgehog signaling pathway. Which of the following is the most useful approach?
(C) Treating patients with a membrane-soluble compound that can bind to Smo and block its activity.
Which of the following statements describes the primary function of the Calvin Cycle in green plants?
(E) Synthesize simple sugars from carbon dioxide
Two nutrient solutions are maintained at the same pH. Actively respiring mitochondria are isolated and placed into each of the 2 solutions. Oxygen gas is bubbled into one solution. The other solution is depleted of all available oxygen. Which of the following best explains why ATP Production is greater in the tube with oxygen than in the tube without oxygen?
(A) The rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen
Why is apoptosis potentially threatening to the healthy "neighbors" of a dying cell?
(B) Lysosomal enzymes exiting the dying cell would damage surrounding cells.
Which of the following best describes the function of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic cellular respiration?
(E) They accept electrons during oxidation-reduction reactions
To identify the molecule that accepts CO2, Calvin and Benson manipulated the carbon-fixation cycle by either cutting off CO2 or cutting off light from cultures of photosynthetic algae. They then measured the concentrations of various metabolites immediately following the manipulation. How would these experiments help identify the CO2 acceptor?
(C) The CO2 acceptor concentration would increase when the CO2 is cut off, but decrease when the light is cut off.
Which of the following is the best explanation for the fact that most transduction pathways have multiple steps?
(D) Multiple steps provide for greater possible amplification of a signal.
GRID IN:
The effect of temperature on the respiration of heterotrophic bacteria in a shallow, slow moving freshwater stream was investigated by performing the following experiment. The water temperature of the stream was monitored over a continuous 24 hour period (Starting at time=0 hours). The respiration rates of bacteria living in the streambed were determined at 6 hours and at 9 hours. The results are presented below.
Based on the information provided, what was the change in (C) in water temperature associated with the change in respiration rate?
5 C.

Steps:
18 C- 15 C= 13 C
GRID IN:
According to the data below, what is the deepest water level at which light penetration is expected to be at least 200 micrometers (Light)
1.5 meters
GRID IN:
What would you predict the mean absorbance to be for a treatment solution that contains 60% acetone and 40% water?
.24

Steps:
(.215 +.274)/2= .2445
(Bonus) G proteins and G-protein-linked receptors
C) are thought to have evolved very early, because of their similar structure and function
in a wide variety of modern organisms.
(Bonus) Which of the following would be inhibited by a drug that specifically blocks the addition of
phosphate groups to proteins?
E) receptor tyrosine kinase activity
(Bonus) One of the major categories of receptors in the plasma membrane reacts by forming
dimmers, adding phosphate groups, then activating relay proteins. Which type does this?
D) receptor tyrosine kinases
1. In the yeast signal transduction pathway, after both types of mating cells have released the
mating factors and the factors have bound to specific receptors on the correct cells
A) binding induces changes in the cells that lead to cell fusion.
2. Which of the following is true of the mating signal transduction pathway in yeast?
B) Mating type a secretes a signal called a factor.
3. From the perspective of the cell receiving the message, the three stages of cell signaling are
B) signal reception, signal transduction, and cellular response.
4. The process of transduction usually begins
B) when the signal molecule changes the receptor protein in some way.
5. A small molecule that specifically binds to another molecule, usually a larger one
B) is called a ligand.
6. Chemical signal pathways
D) often involve the binding of signal molecules to a protein on the surface of a target
cell.
7. The general name for an enzyme that transfers phosphate groups from ATP to a protein is
C) protein kinase.
8. Which of the following describes cell communication systems?
E) In response to a signal, the cell may alter activities by changes in cytosol activity or in
transcription of RNA.
9. Which of the following describes the events of apoptosis?
D) Its DNA and organelles are fragmented, the cell shrinks and forms blebs, and the cell
self-digests.
Essay Link
https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/pdf/ap/apcentral/ap13_biology_q8.pdf
48. Which of the following is a valid interpretation of the experimental results that explains how individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from individuals without diabetes?
(A) The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals
49. Based on the experimental results, which of the following describes the most likely defect in the muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes?
(C) IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations
50. Based on the information presented, which of the following genetic changes in an individual without diabetes is most likely to result in a disrupted cellular response to insulin signaling similar to that of an individual with type 2 diabetes?
(A) A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein
51. Trypsinogen is split by the enzyme enterokinase to form an activated molecule of the protease trypsin. Which of the following would confirm that the activation of trypsin is an example of how a positive feedback mechanism can amplify a biological process?
(B) The trypsin produced by the reaction is capable of splitting and activating additional trypsinogen molecules.
Which of the following is a valid interpretation of the experimental results that explain how individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from individuals without diabetes
The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate the mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell surface is reduced in muscle cells of those individuals.
Based on the experimental results which of the following describes the most likely defect in muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes
IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin concentrations
Based on the information presented which of the following genetic changes in an individual without diabetes is most likely to result in a disrupted cellular response to insulin signaling similar to that of an individual with type 2 diabetes
A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic domain of the protein
One approach to treating patients with pancreatic cancer and other cancers in which Hedgehog protein is detected is to modify the hedgehog signaling pathway. Which of the following is the most useful approach?
(C) Treating patients with a membrane-soluble compound that can bind to Smo and block its activity.
The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the resulting p21 protein suppresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired.
A human kidney filters about 200 liters of blood each day. If ADH secretion is inhibited, which of the following would initially result?
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine.
The illustration above depicts a neuromuscular junction of a patient with an autoimmune disorder. Acetylcholine is a stimulatory neurotransmitter. Which of the following would be most likely result of the continued presence of the antibody
A decrease in action potentials in the muscle, causing muscle weakness and fatigue
Precise regulation of specific hormone levels is required for optimal sperm production in mammals. Anabolic androgenic strands are synthetic variants of testosterone.
Reduce sperm production
The graph shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data
A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released
Cell communication is critical for the function of both unicellular and multicellular eukaryotes. Which of the following is likely true of cell signaling
Similar cell signaling pathways in diverse eukaryotes are evidence of conserved evolutionary processes

(1-3) Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
a) A change in the cytoskeletal attachment of transmembrane proteins b) The presence of a large amount of the precursor form of the ligand c) An increase in the ratio of the number of unsaturated to the number of saturated fatty acid tails of the membrane lipids d) A mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution of a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in the ligand binding site of the receptor
D
(1-10) The volume enclosed by the plasma membrane of plant cells is often much larger than the corresponding volume in animal cells. The most reasonable explanation for this observation is that: a) Plant cells are capable of having a much higher surface-to-volume ratio than animal cells b) plant cells have a much more highly convulated (folded) pplSma membrane than animal cells c) plpant cells contain a large vacuole that reduces he volume of the cytoplasm d) animal cells are more speherical, whereas plant cells are elongated
C
(1-11) The FtsZ protein is present in prokaryotes and in chloroplasts. The protein is structurally and functionally similar to tubulin proteins of eukaryotic cells. Which of the following is a likely conclusion to draw from this information? a) FtsZ and tubulin proteins were both present in a common ancestor b) Microtubules are involved in the mechanics of photosynthesis c) Tubulin genes are evolutionarily derived from the gene that codes for the FtsZ protein d) The sequences of the genes encoding the FtsZ and tubulin proteins are identical (look @picture on test)
C
(1-20) Which of the following diagrams best represents hormone-activated gene expression? (Look at the test fam)
A
(1-30) Which of the following statements is true regarding the movement of substances across cell membranes? a) Ions are unable to move through the phospholipid bilateral because the no polar tail regions of the phospholipids hydrophobic b)ions are able to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the polar head regions of the phospholipid bilayer. c) water is unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the no polar tail regions of the phospholipid are charged. d) water is unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the polar head regions of the phospholipid are charge
A
In the presence of the tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing the RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon
The Trp operon is coordinately regulated group of genes(trpA-trpE) that are required for tryptophan biosynthesis in E.Coli. Based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?

A
which of the following diagrams best represents hormone-activated gene expression?

4 Cortisol is a hormone produced in response to
stress, including starvation, in humans. Which of
the following is most likely an immediate effect
of a starvation-induced increase in cortisol
secretion?
(A) Increased activation of the immune system
(B) Increased urine production by the kidneys
(C) Increased bone and collagen formation
(D) Increased mobilization of fatty acids from fat
cells
d
7 Damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate
platelets and stimulate the formation of blood
clots. Which of the following predictions about
the activity of platelets best describes a positive
feedback mechanism?
(A) Activated platelets release chemicals that
inhibit blood clot formation.
(B) Activated platelets release signaling
molecules that inhibit cell division in
damaged tissue.
(C) Activated platelets constrict the blood
vessels, stopping blood flow.
(D) Activated platelets release chemicals that
activate more platelets.
d
53 The diagram above represents a model of signal transduction pathways (I and II) in a cell that is targeted by two
different hormones (H1 and H2). The components of the signal transduction pathways are identified in the figure
legend. Each cellular molecule in both pathways can exist in an inactive or active form. When the components
in pathway I are sequentially activated, the TAP molecules promote cell division. When the components in
pathway II are sequentially activated, downstream signaling by the G protein is inhibited. Based on the model,
which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
(A) A mutation in the gene encoding PP that results in a nonfunctional protein
(B) A mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
(C) A mutation in the gene encoding R1 so that it is inactive even in the presence of H1
(D) A mutation in the gene encoding R2 so that it is active even in the absence of H2
b
39. The diagram above illustrates feedback control as
exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following
surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of
TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the
following best explains this increase?
(A) Residual blood thyroxine, from prior to
thyroid gland removal, will bind to cells in
the anterior pituitary, signaling more TSH
secretion.
(B) Thyroxine will remain bound to thyroxine
receptors on various body cells, and these
body cells will secrete additional hormones
that stimulate the anterior pituitary to
secrete TSH.
(C) Thyroxine that was stored in the anterior
pituitary prior to thyroid gland removal will
signal more TSH secretion.
(D) A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss
of inhibition to the hypothalamus and
anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH
secretion.
D
52. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in maintaining
homeostasis in mammals. ADH is released from the
hypothalamus in response to high tissue osmolarity. In
response to ADH, the collecting duct and distal tubule in the
kidney become more permeable to water, which increases
water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount of
hormone released is controlled by a negative feedback loop.
Based on the model presented, which of the following
statements expresses the proper relationship between
osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
(A) As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released,
causing less water to be excreted as urine.
(B) As tissue osmolarity rises, less ADH is released, causing
less water to be excreted as urine.
(C) As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released,
causing more water to be e48. The graph above shows changes in glucagon and
insulin secretions at different concentrations of
blood glucose. Which of the following feedback
mechanisms is best supported by the data?
(A) A falling glucagon level causes a rise in the
insulin level, which maintains equal
amounts of both hormones in the blood.
(B) A high glucagon level causes a rise in the
insulin level, which maintains high levels
of both hormones in the blood.
(C) A low glucose level causes the release of
glucagon, which stimulates the release of
more glucose from tissues, which in turn
lowers the amount of glucagon being
released.
(D) A low glucose level causes the release of
insulin, which stimulates the release of
more glucose from tissues, which in turn
increases the amount of insulin being
released. xcreted as urine.
(D) As tissue osmolarity rises, less ADH is released, causing
more water to be excreted as urine.
a
48. Which of the following is a valid interpretation
of the experimental results that explains how
individuals with type 2 diabetes differ from
individuals without diabetes?
(A) The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in
individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate
that mobilization of GLUT4 to the cell
surface is reduced in muscle cells of those
individuals.
(B) The relatively low levels of glucose uptake in
individuals with type 2 diabetes indicate
that no functional GLUT4 protein is
produced in the muscle cells of those
individuals.
(C) The absence of activated insulin receptors in
individuals with type 2 diabetes indicates
that no insulin is secreted by the pancreatic
cells of those individuals.
(D) The absence of activated IRS-1 in individuals
with type 2 diabetes indicates that no
functional insulin receptor protein is
produced in the muscle cells of those
individuals.

49. Based on the experimental results, which of the
following describes the most likely defect in
muscle cells of patients with type 2 diabetes?
(A) Insulin receptor proteins do not reach the cell
surface.
(B) Insulin does not activate its receptor.
(C) IRS-1 activation is reduced at high insulin
concentrations.
(D) GLUT4 blocks glucose from entering cells.

50. Based on the information presented, which of
the following genetic changes in an individual
without diabetes is most likely to result in a
disrupted cellular response to insulin signaling
similar to that of an individual with type 2
diabetes?
(A) A deletion in the gene encoding the insulin
receptor that removes only the cytoplasmic
domain of the protein
(B) Duplication of the gene encoding a PI-3
kinase that results in synthesis of a musclespecific variant of the enzyme in skin cells
as well as in muscle cells
(C) A mutation in the gene encoding IRS-1 that
causes the protein to be active in muscle
cells even in the absence of insulin
signaling
(D) Insertion of a small segment of DNA into the
promoter of the Glut4 gene that results in
increased synthesis of GLUT4 pro
A, C, A
27. Thyroxin is a hormone that increases metabolic
activities within various tissue targets. Low levels
of circulating thyroxin trigger the secretion of
thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) from the
anterior pituitary. TSH secretion then stimulates
thyroxin production and release by the thyroid
gland. The increased level of circulating thyroxin
inhibits further secretion of TSH from the anterior
pituitary.
Based on the information provided, which of the
following can most likely be concluded about the
TSH-thyroxin loop?
(A) A person taking thyroxin to supplement low
thyroxin secretion will produce more TSH.
(B) Increased thyroxin production would cause
elevated ribosomal activity in the anterior
pituitary.
(C) The structure of the loop would lead to
elevated thyroid and tissue activity due to
positive feedback.
(D) The feedback mechanism would maintain
relatively constant levels of thyroxin
throughout tissue targets.
d
41. Precise regulation of specific hormone levels is required for optimal sperm production in mammals, as
summarized in the figure above. Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) are synthetic variants of testosterone
that are sometimes abused by persons who desire to enhance their athletic performance or alter their physique.
Assuming that AAS function in the same way as naturally occurring testosterone, it is most likely that long-term
abuse of AAS would
(A) stimulate FSH secretion
(B) stimulate testosterone production
(C) stimulate LH secretion
(D) reduce sperm production
d
24. As represented in the model above, B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens or stimulated helper
T cells (TH). Based on the model, which of the following best describes an outcome of B cell activation?
(A) Activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells.
(B) Activated B cells stimulate TH cells to secrete antibodies.
(C) Both B cells and TH cells release chemical signals that negatively regulate antigen-presenting cells.
(D) Plasma cells produce antibodies that activate additional B cells by a positive feedback mechanism.
a
36. The healthy human immune system responds to pathogens with both specific and nonspecific processes. Which
of the following models depicts a nonspecific response?
b - because of phagocytosis being innate and nonspecific
5. Water in a pond contaminated with the
weed killer atrazine is suspected of inhibiting
metamorphosis in northern leopard frogs.
A team of scientists collected fertilized northern
leopard frog eggs from a different pond that is not
contaminated. Which of the following is the best
experimental design to determine whether atrazine
is responsible for inhibiting metamorphosis in
northern leopard frogs?
(A) Place half of the fertilized eggs in a pool of
water with the same concentration of
atrazine as the contaminated pond and place
the other half of the fertilized eggs in a pool
of water that has no atrazine. Monitor the
development of the embryos through
metamorphosis into adulthood.
(B) Place all of the fertilized eggs in a pool of
pond water with the same concentration of
atrazine as the contaminated pond and
compare the number of frogs that reach
metamorphosis to those that reach
adulthood in the contaminated pond.
(C) Allow all fertilized eggs to develop into
adults. Expose one-third of the frogs to
one-half of the concentration of atrazine
in the contaminated pond and expose
another one-third of the frogs to the
same concentration of atrazine as the
contaminated pond. Leave the last one-third
of the frogs in water with no atrazine and
note any adverse changes in the physical
condition of the atrazine-treated frogs in
three months.
(D) Divide the fertilized eggs into three groups
and expose each group to a different
concentration of atrazine. Release the eggs
back into the contaminated pond and check
for metamorphosis after three months. 2014 question
a
Figure 1 shows the events during and immediately following fertilization of a sea urchin egg. Sexual
reproduction relies on the successful fusion of only one sperm with one egg (time 1) during fertilization.
In sea urchins, a diploid organism, several events prevent additional sperm from fertilizing the egg.
One of the first events following fertilization is the fusion of secretory vesicles called cortical granules
with the egg plasma membrane (time 2). The cortical granules release their contents, a mixture of
polysaccharides and proteins, into the perivitelline space. Subsequent to this, water moves into the
perivitelline space, causing it to expand and physically separate the fertilization envelope from the egg
plasma membrane (time 3). The fertilization envelope prevents fusion of more than one sperm with the
egg.
(a) Provide ONE reason that preventing fusion of multiple sperm with one egg in sea urchins has
provided a survival advantage over evolutionary time. (1 point)
(b) Describe how the release of the contents of the cortical granules into the perivitelline space
results in the movement of water and causes the subsequent expansion of the perivitelline space.
(2 points) 2017 question
a) Reasoning (1 point)
Cells with too many chromosomes do not live

b) Description of movement (1 point)
Increased osmolarity/decreased water potential (of perivitelline space)

Description of expansion (1 point)
Water movement adds volume
33. When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the
skin, an action potential is propagated along
a neuron to the brain, where another signal is
sent back to the muscle for a response.
Which of the following best describes what
occurs when the action potential reaches
a chemical synapse at the end of an axon?

(A) The action potential jumps from one axon
to the next connecting axon.
(B) The action potential travels through the
synapse to the next connecting dendrite.
(C) The action potential jumps the synapse to
the next connecting dendrite.
(D) The action potential causes a release of
neurotransmitters that travel across the
synapse.
2014
d
40) Which of the following representations best shows a portion of an axon at rest (before or after an action
potential)? 2014
a
46) 46. Information is transmitted through the nervous system when one neuron signals another neuron. The structure of
neurons enables transmission to proceed quickly and efficiently. Which of the following diagrams correctly
identifies both the structure of neurons and the direction of information flow between neurons? 2014
d
26. The brain coordinates the circulatory and respiratory systems of the human body. The control of breathing, for
example, involves neural pathways among the structures represented in the figure above. One important stimulus
in the control of breathing is an increase in blood CO2 concentration, which is detected as a decrease in blood
pH. Which of the following best describes the physiological response to an overall increase in cellular

respiration in the body?

(A) In response to depleted blood CO2 levels, the pH sensors send signals directly to the rib muscles, resulting
in an increase in the rate of CO2 uptake by the lungs and a decrease in CO2 utilization by the brain.
(B) In response to low blood pH, the pH sensors send a signal to the brain, which then sends a signal to the
diaphragm, resulting in an increased rate of breathing to help eliminate excess blood CO2 .
(C) In response to high blood pH, the pH sensors send a signal directly to the lungs, resulting in a slower rate of
breathing, and the lungs send a signal back to the heart once CO2 availability has been restored.
(D) In response to an increased rate of breathing, the rib muscles send a signal to the brain, which then sends a
signal to the heart, resulting in a decrease in heart activity and slower flow of blood through the body.
b
42) Which of the following best describes how
myelination affects the transmission of nerve
impulses?
(A) It speeds up the transmission of impulses by
acting as an electrical insulator.
(B) It speeds up the transmission of impulses by
integrating signal information more quickly.
(C) It slows down the transmission of impulses
by forming gaps of unsheathed axons.
(D) It slows down the transmission of impulses
by impeding the movement of ions across
the neuronal membrane. 2017
a
the food web represented above does not include bacteria and fungi. whcih of the following best describes a consequence of having no bacteria and fungi in the food web?
grasses will have no direct access to chemical components recycled from dead organisms
the following DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading fram of the B-hemoglobin gene. Given the codon chart listed below, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
the reading frame of the sequence would shift, causeing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point
which of the following questions might scientists ask to most reliably determin if there has ever been life on Mars?
did Mars have elements present in its atmosphere to support life?
Cortisol is a hormone produced in response to stress, including starvation, in humans. Which of the following is most likely an immediate effect of a starvation induced increase in cortisol secretion?
increased mobilization of gatty acids from fat cells
which of the following is the most likely consequence of adding ciproflozacin to animal feed?
ciprofloxacin resistant strains of C. jejuni will have a selective advantage in the digestive tracts of livestock, increasing the risk of serious infection in people
the table above shows derived characters for selected organisms. Based on the information in the table, which of the following cladograms best represents the evolutionary relationships among the organisms?
Fish breaks off first
damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate platelets and stimulate the formation of blood clots. WHich of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets
based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
DNA
which of the following conclusions is best supported by the results of the experiment?
neither population grows as large when cultured together as each does when cultured separately
the difference in carrying capacity between the two species when cultured separately is closests to which of the following values?
350 individuals per 5.0 mL
which of the following statements best justifies th euse of the experimental results in an investigation of interspecies competition?
when two populations use the same sources of energy, resource availability in a shared environment limits the growth of both populations
if the mixed populations were cultured for an additional 25days, which of the following predictions would be consistent with the data?
one population would stabilize at a large size, and the other population would be eliminated from the culture
based on the experimental results, which of the following statements best describes the relationship of the two populations that were studies in the investigation?
the populations have a competitive relationship in which each species limits the ability of the other to reproduce
Percent of moths recaptured in two different environments which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
dark colored moths were more likely to be recaptured in the polluted environment than in the unpolluted environment, suggesting an increased chance of reproductive success
which of the following question about the origin of life on Earth is most scientifically testable?
can simple organic molecules form spontaneously in an oxygen free atmosphere
a microelectrode is inserted into a neruon. A voltage recorder then measure the voltage difference between the microelectrode inside the cell and an electrode placed outside the cell. Which of the following plots most accurately represents the changes in membrane protential throughout a single action potential?
positive graph with bumps going up and down
the diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true
the diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation
the graph above represents the proportions of hatchlings of certain types of reptiles that are male at different egg incubation temperatures. Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
the expression of sex determination genes in certain reptiles is influenced by temperature
which of the following modifications to the experimental design would improve the reliability of the results presented in figure 1
measuring blood glucose levels in a group of mice that were not given STZ
which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data presented in figure 1
implanted hESC-B cells are effective at regulating blood glucose levels in the absence of mouse B-cells
based on the data in figure 2, which of the following best justifies the researchers' claim that hESC-B implants can functionally replace the mouse's naturally occurring B-cells?
the mouse with an hESC-b implant successfully regulated blodd glucose levels after STZ treatment but not after the implant was removed
in contrast to type 1 diabetes, where ther is no insulin production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failture of body cells to respond normally to insulin. Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following best predicts the effectiveness of unsing hESC-B implantation to treat type 2 diabetes?
the treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-B cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells
based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC-B cells use negative feedback to return blood glucose levels to normal ig blood glucose levels increase?
increased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells --> increased glucose uptake by body cells --> decreased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells
as represented in the moel above, B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens or stimulated helper T cells (Th) Based on the model, which of the following best describes an outcome of B cell activation?
activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells
a student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition. which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
single stranded DNA
which of the following communities is likely to be most stable?
one with high species diversity
which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure?
it has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes
some blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom have become distinguishable by certain physical and behavioral traits from blackcaps that migrate to Spain. Which of the following best predicts the effect on the blackcap population if humans in the United Kingdom continue to place food in feeders during the winter?
the blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population
which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose
which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted
which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?
the lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available
bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GRP?
beta galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light
which of the following predics the most likely outcome of moving a population of guppies from a pool with pike cichilids to a pool with killifish?
after many generations, the offspring of the introduced guppies will mature at an older age and larger size because of selective pressure from the new predator
which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?
is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?
the figure above represents a rough endoplasmic reticulum. Which of the following best describes the role of the structure labeled Y?
Structure Y is the location where proteins are synthesized
in a sample of 2,400 people, 1,482 were found to have the dominant (taster) phenotype. assuming that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, approximatelt how many individuals in the sample are expected to be heterozygous for TAS2R38
1,133
which of the following scientific questions will best help researchers determine when the nontaster allele arose in the evolutionary history of the selected primates?
does the nontaster allele exiset in any nonhuman primate populations?
NUCLEOTIDE VARIATION IN THE TAS2R38 - which of the following conclusions is supported by the data
Bonobos are more closely related to humans than to gorillas because bonobos and humans share a more recent common ancestor than bonobos and gorillas do
The TAS2R38 receptor protein has been detected on the surface of cells from individuals who are homozygous for the nontaster allele of TAS2R38 gene. Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutations associated with the nontaster allele on TAS2R38 gene expression
the mutations change the primary structure of the encoded receptor protein
Which of the following best describe the likely evolution of the TAS2R38 locus in the gorilla population?
gorillas who could taste bitter toxins were more likely to survive and reproduce than nontasters
for each ion or molecule, the relative concentration on each side of the membran is indicated. Which of the following accurately describes one of the movements taking place?
Na+ transport out of the cell requires ATP hydrolysis
which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
it speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator
which of the following is the best plan for collecting data to use in a test of the hypothesis?
examining the upper part of the lower rock layer for evidence of a catastrophic event, such as the presence of shocked quartz, iridium, or soot particles
which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increased cottonwood growth on the food web?
increased cottonwood growth will provide more resources for cicadas, resulting in an increase in the kestrel population
based upon the data, which of the following best describes the effect on the timing of cicada emergence if the cottonwood ground cover decreases from 50 percent to 25 percent
cicadas will emerge approximately 10 days earlier
based on the data, which of the following describes the most likely relationship between wildfires, soil temperature, and the timing of cicada emergence in the same year?
wildfires caused a reduction in ground cover, which in turn caused increased soil temperatures leading to earlier emergence of cicadas
yellow billed cuckoos typically hatch in mid July. Emerging cicadas are a primary food source for nesting cuckoos. Which of the following best predicts the effect of wildfires on yellow billed cuckoo populations?
the yellow billed cuckoo population will decline because the cicadas will emerge before the hatching season begins
the data from the temperature controlled experimental plots can best be used to support which of the following conclusions about cicada dvelopment?
cicada nymphs mature to adults faster in warmer soil than in cooler soil
the table above shows the types and properties of nitrogen containing wastes produced by several vertebrates. Which of the following is the best evolutionary explanation of the data?
ammonia secretion requires a large volume of water and was therefore selected against in terrestrial vertebrate
the figure above shows an organelle typically found in eukaryotic cells. Which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?
the inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the intermembrane space and the matrix
which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?
noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule
which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown above?
both processes increase genetic variation
based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
a mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
Two populations of a species of squirrel are geographically isolated from each other. Although they have the same population density one population is significantly larger in number than the other. A new bacterial disease, which is easily spread and extremely virulent, affects both populations at the same time. Which of the following is the best prediction how will the new disease affect the two populations?
The smaller population will have more affected than will the larger population, because the smaller population has less genetic variation than the larger population has.
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those of many prokaryetic cells. Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?
An ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells.
Sickle-cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of glutamic hemoglobin that results in a change from acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
In the year 2000, specimens of Caulerpa taxifolia, green alga used in tropical aquariums, were found off the coast of California, Native to the Indian Ocean, C. tarifolia is known for aggressive growth and ability to compete with sea grasses' it is currently on an international list of invasive species. Which of the following best predicts the consequences of the introduction of C. tarifolia to the California coast?
Without natural herbivores or competitors. C. taxifolia will grow rapidly and crowd out native species of producers.
The graph above represents the number of individuals in a population of wolves and in a population of moose observed in the same isolated geographic area over a 40-year period, from 1955 through 1995. Which of the following statements about the two populations is best supported by the information presented in the graph?
The wolves were predators of the moose, which were otherwise reproductively successful.
Which of the following statements is best supported by the data?
The presence of black bears and salmon correlates with a significant increase in nitrogen influx.
Which of the following most likely describes how the interaction between bears and salmon influences nitrogen dynamic in the environment?
When bears consume salmon, they leave parts of the carcasses on the ground, which decompose, releasing nitrogen into the environment.
Which of the following pieces of additional data would help further investigate the relationship between bears, salmon, and the influence of nitrogen into the local environment?
The experimenters should remove the remains of salmon carcasses immediately after the salmon are eaten by the bears and the nitrogen content of the carcasses.
If a dam is built downstream and prevents salmon migration to the test sites, which of the following most accurately predicts the impact on nitrogen flux?
Nitrogen influx will decrease because there will be less bear-salmon interaction.
As depicted in the diagram, honeybees communicate the location of flower patches to members of their model? dances that give information about the direction and distance to the flowers. Which the following statements about how honeybees communicate the position of flower patches is most consistent with the model?
The farther the target flowers from the hive, the longer the waggle phase.
Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye two alleles: a dominant allele has (R) red eyes and a recessive to (r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex-linked gene that controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T that allows for expression of the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for expression of the colored pigments.

Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed male and a red-eyed female?
RrX^1X^1 * Rr X^TY
Some strains of the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes secrete poisonous substances called genes encoding the exotoxins are thought to have originated in bacteriophages, which are viruses that infect bacteria. Which of the following is the most likely the by which S. pyogenes has the ability to produce the exotoxins?
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome.
Based on the model of speciation presented, which of the following describes the most likely consequence to the populations over time?
Hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to the subsequent generations.
Which of the following best describes the reason for excluding hybrid diseases when calculating the allele frequencies of two interbreeding populations at the intermediate stage of speciation (Figure 2)?
Sterile individuals make no contribution to the next generation.
In a separate investigation, individual from different populations that are geographically isolated from each other are mated in the laboratory. The hybrid offspring were then mated with individuals from either of the original populations. Only the female hybrid offspring were fertile. The experimental results are most consistent with which of the stages that are depicted in the model?
Intermediate stage (Figure 2)
Using the model of speciation and applying it to a different population, which of the following outcomes is most consistent for a different species in which the ailments are homogametic and the females are heterogametic?
Sterility would appear in females before appearing in males.
A scientist is evaluating a proposal for raising large numbers of fish in ocean pens for human. As part of the evaluation, the scientist is designing a plan for investigating how the fish in the ocean pens might affect nearby ecosystems.

Which of the following is the most appropriate factor to use as the variable variable in the experimental investigation?
The amount of metabolic wastes in the water where the fish are being raised
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine is a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface recep receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP
Which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to model represented in the figure above?
Which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane?
A group of students designed an experiment to deferinto the compost on the germination and growth of plants. The students ber up plots by mising different ratios of oil and compost. They planted 20 pea and 20 melon seeds in each plot and watered each plot regularly. The students recorded the number of seeds that germinated, and the plants grew, plant length, and size of leaves, and general health observations

The following observations were recorded.

In all treatments, meme pea seeds germinated than melom seeds.

There was a veek of rainy weather at three weeks.

Melon plants developed to fungal growth at four weeks, Melon plants grew longer than pea planis, but many melon leaves showed signs of yellowing as the woekx passed.

The students said that pea plants grew better in compost than did melon plants.

Which of the following best addresses the validity of the conclusion made by the students?
The conclusion is invalid because other variables in the experiment (biotic and abiotic) affected the results.
Butterflies of the genus Colias live in the Rocky Mountains, where they experience a wide range of temperatures. Different variants of a particular glycolytic enzyme in the flight muscles are optimally active at dinerent temperatures. Within the same population, but most effective at 29 ° C, while others most effective at 40 C. Still others can be equal at both temperatures, which is most consistent with the observed butterfly behavior?
Butterflies that expre or variations of the enzyme are used over a greater range of temperature.
Which of the following statements best justifies the claim that the conditions in at least one of the experiments could generate the molecular building blocks essential for life?
The nitrogen and ammonia gases in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of the AAs.
Picture of cladogram


The validity of the eladogram is best supported by molecular evidence for which of the following changes in the amino acid composition of the beta-hemoglobin protein during the evolution of these species?
Arginine to leucine at position X on the cladogram
Which of the following best describes the reproductive ability of C elegans following the ARD induced in the first experiment?
Mating with a well-fed male consistently produced more offspring than did reproduction via self-fertilization.
The average brood size per individual mated upon reintroduction of food following 30 days of ARD is closest to which of the following?
50
Which of the following conclusions is most consistent with the data shown in Figure 2?
The number of days an animal spends in ARD does not significantly affect its time of survival after reintroduction of food.
Based on the experimental results, which of the following is the best evolutionary explanation for occurrence of ARD in C. elegans?
The ability to enter ARD provides a strong selective advantage because reproduction can occur despite periods of food scarcity.
Picture of signaling diagram for steroid hormones

Based on the information presented, what of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA.
The pedigree below shows the inheritance of a dominant allele of a gene in a family over several generations. Circles represent females and squares represent males. Shaded symbols indicate individuals carrying the allele.
maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring
Paragraph about high blood cholesterol

A man with high cholesterol levels is about to marry a woman whose total cholesterol levels are also higher than average. A doctor has suggested they got tested for the HC allele. Which of the following is a valid ethical question about the test?
If both have the allele for HC, should an insurance company raise their rate because of the results of the test?
A cell is treated with a drug that prevents the formation of new lysosomes. The cell continues to transcribe the genes that code for the hydrolytic enzymes that are normally found in lysosomes and continues to translate the mRNAs for those proteins on membrane-bound ribosomes.

The hydrolytic enzymes are most likely to accumulate in which of the following cellular structures?
Golgi complex
Picture of DNA damage

The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the resulting p21 protein suppresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired.
Lab question of light/dark/plants/fish in water

Which of the following graphs is the most appropriate representation of the experimental results documented in the table?
Picture of bar graph
Which of the following observations provides the best evidence that photosynthesis occurred in treatment group 1?
The mean PH of the samples increased after one hour.
To investigate whether an organism in the study is capable of both photosynthesis and respiration, a comparison of which treatment groups is most appropriate?
1 and 2
The results for treatment groups V and VI could you suggest which of the following questions about the design of the experiment?
Does the aquarium water contain livin microorganisms?
Which of the following modifications to the experimental design will the best help reduce the standard errors of the means?
Increasing the sample size of each treatment group
Paragraph and picture on human cells- dividing cell, contact inhibition

Which of the following statements accurately uses the information presented to support the hypothesis that interruption of M function in a single body cell can result in cancer?
Growth factor signaling can trigger mitosis in cells that are in direct contact with other cells.
In Drosophila melanogaster for wild-type tan body color (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for black body color (b). Similarly, the allele for wild type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing phenotype (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the expected and observed results are shown. Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.
2 paragraphs- Which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteolytic enzymes are evolutionarily conserved among species?
If a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a precursor protein from another species, does correct cleavage occur?
Transmission of an action potential across synapse involves the release of neurotransmitters by the presynaptic neuron. The arrival of the action potential triggers to rise in the calcium concentration in the terminal synaptic, and the change in concentration triggers to release of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft. Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ions best shows how an action is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
Picture

NA+ arrow entering on right top.
K+ arrow leaving on bottom right.
Ca++ entering.
Table- nitrogenous waste production

Which of the following statements is most consistent with the data in the table?
The kidneys of reptiles and birds are highly efficient because little water is needed to excrete Uriel acid.
Researchers investigating...

Based on the model, which of the following best explains why a bright green fluorescence was observed following stimulation of a presynaptic neuron?
GFP* contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis.
Which of the following best explains why GFP* might exhibit a bright green fluorescence in alkaline conditions but not in acidic conditions?
Addition of an H+ to GFP* at acidic pH changes the shape of the protein, preventing fluorescence.
Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
Based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism by which CDK5 regulates neurotransmitter release?
CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.
Previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35. Which of the following best predicts how p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function?
Degration of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains how regulation of neurotransmitter release might increase the range of responses to a stimulus in the nervous system?
Different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitter.
# of Cacti vs. # of Spines graph-

In a species of cactus, the number of spines on a plant is genetically determined. The graph above shows frequency distributions for populations of the cactus growing in the presence or absence of two herbivores: peccaries (a New World pig) and wasp larvae. Which of the following best accounts for the different frequency distributions in the graph?
Precarias eat cacti with a smaller number of spines, and wasp larvae eat cacti with a greater number of spines.
Scientists are studying finches...

If the two finch populations are each in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and are isolated from each other, then which of the following graphs correctly displays the relative genotype frequencies?
Graphs

LL = .21 (island 1) LL= .2 (island 2)
Second base in Codon chart

5'-GACCGCAUGGUGACGAAAUU UGGCCAUUAA- 3'

Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the available start codon?
Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His
Chart of parents and offspring (cross 1-2-3)

The data above represents the results of three different crosses involving the inheritance of a gene that determines whether a certain organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
The allele for blue is an X-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2
Tables of population 1 and 2, 1980 and 2010

The table shows the changes in allele frequencies of a specific gene in two populations of randomly mating small mammals after 30 years. The populations inhabit adjacent equatorial islands that have similar topography and climate. Which of the following is the most reliable conclusion that can be drawn from the analysis of the data above?
Genetic drift has occurred in population 1
Cladogram (grid-in)

Based on the information presented, which of the derived characters is shared by alligators and mantees but not salamanders? Give you answer as the number label of a character indicated on the cladogram.
3. Amniotic Egg
Fruit flies (grid-in)

A true-breeding female with wild-type wings and white eyes is crossed with a male with vestigial wings and red eyes. What proportion of the offspring are expected to be evil with wild-type wings and white eyes? Give your answer as a fraction or a decimal value from 0 to 1.
.5
ABO blood type in humans...

Assuming that the population is in Hardy- Weinberg equilibrium with respect to blood type what is the frequency of the i allele? Give your answer to two decimal places.
.67
Biological communities containing a large number of species that are evenly distributed exhibit high species diversity...

Calculate the Simpson's index of diversity for the community of trees. Enter your answer as a value between 0 and 1 to the nearest hundredth.
.65
Zucchini squash in sucrose graph...

Using teh straight line on the graph above, calculate the water potential (in bars) of the zucchini squash at 21C. Give your answer to one decimal place.
-8.6
mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells
Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?

a) the mitochondrion is the only location in which eukaryotic cells can synthesize atp
b) an ancestral cell most likely engulfed and aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells
c) mitochondrial membrane provide abundant surface area for reactions because of the infoldings called cristae
d) the mitochondrion plays a role in respiration but it also stores the cell's mRNA
B
Which of the following statements about the two population sis best supported by the info presented in the graph
a) the reproductive rate of the wolves was greater than the reproductive rate of the moose
b) mutualism allowed the two population so reporoduce while occupying the same ecological space
c) speciation occurred when the two population became reproductively isolated from each other
d) The wolves were predators of the moose which were otherwise reproductively succesful
d) The wolves were predators of the moose which were otherwise reproductively succesful
sickle cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at pos. 6. all other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. based on the info , which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle cell anemia
a)a translocation of DNA from one chromosome to another
b) a single base pair insertion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
c) a single pair deletion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
d) a single base pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
d
which of the following statements accurately uses the info presented to support the hypothesis that interruptions of M functions in a single body cell can result in cancer
a) protein 3 will be prevented from interacting with CAMs causing the cell cycle to stop permanently
b) the ras protein will remain bound to DNA blocking expression of genes required for mitosis
c) growth factor signaling can trigger mitosis in cells that are n direct contact with other cells
d) the receptor proteins of body cells will no longer bind to growth factor proteins
a or d
which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteolytic enzymes are evolutionarily conserved among species?
a)are the genes encoding the proteolytic enzymes expressed in the same cell types in all species?
b) if a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a precursor protein from another species, does correct cleavage occur?
c) one the precursor protein of different species are cleaved, do the active signaling proteins bind to the same receptors on different target cells?
d) tare the proteolytic enzymes synthesized in the rough ER of all species?
c ?
which of the following statement about how honeybees communicate the position of flower patches is most consistent with the model?
a)the number of repetitions of the waggle dance indicates the quality of the pollen source
b)the total are covered by any waggle dance leads bees to the target flowers
c) the angle of the waggle phase relative tot the vertical plane indicates the position of the target flowers relative to another beehive
d) the farther the target flowers from the hive, the longer the waggles phase
d
a scientist is designing a plan for investigating how the fish in the ocean pens might affect nearby ecosystems
which of the following is the most appropriate factor to use as the dependent variable in the experimental investigation
a) the amount of metabolic wastes in the water where the fish are being raised
b) the water temp in the natural habitat of the fish being studied
c) the types of fish that are consumes by humans
d) the amount of time it takes for fish to digest a meal
a
which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown
a) epinephrine bind to a cell surface receptor, the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP
b) epinephrine bind to a cell surface receptor, the activated receptor catalyzes the conversion of glycogen to glucose
c) epinephrine diffuses through the plasma membrane, the hormone dismerizes in the cytosol
d) epinephrine is taken into the cell by endocytosis, glycogen is converted to glucose in the endocytotic vesicle
a
which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to the model represented in the figure above
a) is atp required for the trans of sugars across the outer mitochondrial membrane
b) do the types of phospholipids in a membrane affect the rate at which molecules enter a cell by passive diffusion
c) which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane
d) how does temperature affect the movement ofmolecules into lysosomes
c
the students concluded that pea plants grew better in compost than did melon plants. Which of the following best addresses the validity of the conclusion made by the students?
a) the conclusion is valid because the independent and dependent variables in the experiment were controlled
b) the conclusion is valid because the experimental design included a large sample size
c) the conclusion is invalid because other variables in the experiment affected the results
d) invalid because the units of measurement were not given in the experimental design
c
which of the following claims is most consistent with the observed butterfly behavior
a) butterflies that express two variants of the enzyme are active over a greater range of temperatures
b) butterflies that are active over a wide range of temperatures produce greater amounts of the enzymes
c) temp has little effect of the activity of the butterflies
d) butterflies that are active at warmer temperatures produce more offspring
a
which of the following best justifies the claim that the condition sin at least on e of the experiments could generate the molecular building blocks essential for life
a_ the carbon dioxide gas and water vapor in 1 could react to produce the phospholipids required by the first life forms
b) the nitrogen gas and ammonia gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids
c) the sulfur dioxide gas in experiment 2 could donate the excited electrons required to drive photosynthesis
d) the methane gas in 2 could act as the electron acceptor required for cellular resp
a or b
based on the info presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
a)histone protein synthesis will increase because histones maintain the DNA in an optimal conformation for chromosome assembly
b) ribosome production will increase because ribosomes are specific for the mRNA with which they bind during translation
c) DNA replication will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to the DNA
d) production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to the DNA
d
which of the following best describes the reproductive ability of C. elegans folloowing the ARD induced in the first experiment
a) mating with a well fed male consistently produced more offspring than did reproduction via self fertilization
Which of the following is the best presiction of how the new disease will affect the two population?
C. The smaller population will be more affected than will the larger population, because, because the smaller population has less genetic variation than the larger population has.
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells. Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?
An ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells.
Sickle cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta summit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
A single base pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit.
In the year 2000, specimens of Caulepra taxifloia, a green alga used in tropical aquariums, were found coast of California. Native to the Indian Ocean C.taxifolia is known for aggressive growth and an ability to compete with sea grasses. It is currently on an international list of invasive species. Which of the following best predicts the consequences of the introduction of C.taxifolia?
Without natural herbivores or competitors C.taxifolia will grow rapidly and crowd out native species of producers.
The graph above represents the number of individuals in a population of wolves and in a population of moose observed in the same isolated geographic area over a 40 year period, from 1955 through 1995. Which of the following statements about 2 populations is best supported by the information presented on the graph?
D. The wolves were predators of the moose, which were otherwise reproductively successful.
Which of the following statements is best supported by the data?
The presence of black bears and salmon correlates with a significant increase in nitrogen influx.
Which of the following most likely describes how the interaction between bears and salmon influences nitrogen dynamics in the enviorment?
When bears consume salad they leave parts of the carcass on the ground which decompose, releasing nitrogen in the environment.
Which of the following pieces of additional data would help further investigate the relationship between bears, salmon and influx of nitrogen into the local environment?
The experimenters should remove the remains of salmon carcasses immediately after the salmon are eaten by the bears and determine the nitrogen content of the carcasses.
If a dam is built downstream and prevents salmon migration to the test sites, which of the following most accurately predicts the impact on nitrogen influx?
Nitrogen influx will decrease because there will be less bear-salmon interaction.
As depicted in the diagram, honeybees communicate the location of flower patches to members their hives with waggle dances that give information about the direction and distance to the flowers. Which of the following statements about how honeybees communicate the position of flower patches is most consistent with the model?
The total area covered by any waggle dances leads bees to the target flowers.
Which of the following represents a cross between a white eyed female and a red eyed male?
RrX^tX^t x RrX^tY
Which of the following is the most likely mechanism by which the S. pyogenes acquired the ability produce the exotoxins?
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome.
Based on the model of speciation presented, which of the following describes the most likely consequence to the populations over time?
Hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to subsequent generations.
Which of the following best describes the reason for excluding hybrid males when calculating the allele frequencies of two interbreeding populations at the intermediate stage of speciation?
Sterile individuals make no genetic contribution to the next generation.
In separate investigation, individual Mice from two populations that in nature are geographically isolated from each other are mated in the laboratory. The hybrid offspring were then mated with individuals from each other are mated with individuals from either f the original populations. Only the female hybrid offspring were fertile. The experimental results are most consistent with which of stages that are decipted in the model?
Intermediate stage.
Using the model of speciation and applying it to a different population, which of the following outcomes is most consistent for a different species in which the males are homogametic and the females are heterogamatic?
Sterility would appear in a females before appearing in males.
Which of the following is the most appropriate factor to use as the dependent variable in the experimental investigation?
The moment of metabolic wastes in the water where the fish are being raised.
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signiling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
Epinephrine binds to a cell surface receptor the activated receptor the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP.
Which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to the model represented in the figure above?
Which molecular substance is actively transported across a plasma membrane.
The students concluded that pea plants grew better in composts than melon plants. Which of the following best adressses the validity of the conclusions made by the students?
The conclusion is invalid because other variables in the experiment(both biotic and abiotic) affected the results.
Which of the following claims is most consistent with the observed butterfly behavior?
Butterflies that express two variants of the enzyme two variants of the enzyme are active over a greater range of temperature.
Which of the following statements best justifies the claim that the conditions in at least one of the experiments could generate the molecular building block essential for life?
The nitrogen gas and ammonia gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids.
Which of the following best describes the reproductive ability of C. Elegant following the ARD induced in the first experiment?
Mating with a well fed male consistently produced more off spring than did reproduction via self fertilization.
The average brood size per mated individual upon reintroduction of food following 30 days of ARD is closest to which of the following?
50
Which of the following conclusions is most consistent with the data shown in figure 2?
The number of days an animal spends in ARD does not significantly affect its time of survival after reintroduction of food.
Based on experimental results, which of the following is the best evolutionary explanation for the occurrence of ARD IN c.eleganus?
The ability to enter ARD provides a strong selective advantage because reproduction can occur despite periods of food scarcity.
Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
Production of a specific MRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to DNA.
The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome and not on mitochondrial DNA because
Maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of mothers offspring.
A man with high cholesterol levels is about to marry a woman whose total cholesterol levels are also higher than average. A physician has suggested they get tested for the HC allele. Which of the following is a valid ethical question concerning the test?
If both have the allele for HC should the an insurance company raise their rates because of the results of the tests.
The hydrolytic enzymes are most likely to accumulate in which of the following cellular structures?
Golgi complex
The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above,which of the following est describes the role of p53 in response to DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21 and the resulting p21 protein resulting p21 suppresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired.
Which of the following graphs is the most appropriate representation f the experimental results documented in the table?
B the bar graph
Which of the following observations provides the best evidence that photosynthesis occurred in treatment group 1?
The mean ph of the samples increased after one hour.
To investigate whether an organism in the study is capable of both photosynthesis and respiration a comparison of which treatment groups is most appropriate
1 and 2
The results for treatment groups v and vi could suggest which of the following questions about the design of the experiment?
Does the aquarium water contain living microorganisms?
Which of the following modifications to the experimental design will best help reduce the standard errors of the means?
Increasing the sample of size of each treatment group.
Which of the following statements accurately uses the information presented to support the hypothesis that interruption of m function in a single body can result in cancer?
Growth factor signaling can trigger mitosis in cells that are direct contact with other cells
In Dosophilia melanogaster the allel for wild type tan body color (B) is dominant to a recessive allele for black body color(b). Similarly the allele for wild type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing phenotype (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the expected and observed results are shown. Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross.
The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.
Which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteokytic enzymes are evolutionary considered among species?
If a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a precursor protein from another species, does correct clevage species?
Which of the following representations of the movement of calcium, sodium, and potassium ions best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
A
Which of the following statements is most consistent with the data in the table?
The kidneys of reptiles and birds are highly efficient because little water is needed to excrete Uric acid.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains why Albright green fluorescence was observed following stimulation of a pre synaptic neuron
GFP contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic chest by exoxytosis.
Which of the following best explains why GFP might exhibit a green bright flurocense in alkaline condition but not acidic condition?
Addition of H+ of GFP at acidic pH changes the shape of the protein.
Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK 5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specicfic stimulus.
Based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism ny which CDK5 regulates neurotransmitters release?
CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.
Previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function?
Dehydration of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains how regulation of neurotransmitter release might increase the range of responses to a stimulus in the nervous system?
Different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitters.
In a species of cactus, the number of spines on a plant is genetically determined. The graph above shows frequency distribution for populations of cactus species growing in the precense or abcense of two herbivores: peccaries and wasp larve. Which of the following best accounts for the different frequency distributions in the graph?
Peccaries eat cacti with a smaller number of spines and wasp larvae eat cacti with a greater number of spines.
If the two finch populations are each in Hardy Weinberg equalibrium and are isolated from each other, then which of the following graphs correctly displays the relative genotype frequencies.
C
Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the MRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start colon?
Met Val Thr Lys Phe Gly His
The data above represents the results of three different crosses involving the inheritance of a gene that determines whether an organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
The allele for blue is an X linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2.
Which of the following is the most reliable conclusion that can be drawn from analysis of the data above?
Genetic drift has occurred in population 1.
The chromosomes in the picture below are in which stage of mitosis?
anaphase
Which of the cells on the graph are most likely cancerous?
A
Which of the following graphs shows the correct changes in the amount of DNA in a cell as it moves through one cell cycle?
C (the one that goes straight, goes up like a square, stays parallel to the ground as it goes across, and then goes back down evenly where it started.)
Which of the following best describes the numbers of chromosomes and chromatids that are present in a human cell, during the cell cycle
G1= 46 chromosomes/ 46 chromatids- one cellS= 46 chromosomes/ 92 chromatids- one cellCytokinesis= 46 chromosomes/ 46 chromatids- two cells
If cancer is present, what is the likely explanation for what happened to the cells depicted in the curves labeled B and D
they died off because the cancerous cells deprived them of nutrients
In mammals, an increase in the concentration of sodium in the blood triggers the release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) from the pituitary gland. As the concentration of sodium in the blood returns to previous levels, the release of ADH from the pituitary is reduced. Based on the information presented, which of the following describes the most likely role of ADH in maintaining blood homeostasis?
. ADH promotes an increase in the movement of water into the bloodstream
This diagram illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the TSH in the blood will increase. Which best explains this increase?
. A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH production
reception
step 1
response
step 3
transduction
step 2
affects gene expression
step 3
kinases amplify a response
step 2
changes enzyme activity
step 3
protein phosphatases can stop a response
step 2
Proteins are modified in a change reaction
step 2
ligand bind to a receptor
step 1
phosphorylation happens here
step 2
This illustration depicts a neuromuscular junction (where nerves and muscle cells meet) of a patient with an autoimmune disorder. Acetylcholine is a stimulatory neurotransmitter. Which of the following would be the most likely result of the continuted presence of the antibody? (the one with the triangles)
A decrease in action potentials in the muscle,due to receptors being blocked, causing muscle weakness and fatigue
The amount of DNA in a cell at various stage of the cell cycle is shown below
The amount of DNA is halved as the cell divides into two new daughter cells
Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor
A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase
This graph shows the number of chromosomes observed in an actively dividing human cell at each stage of cell division. Which of the following presents a correct interpretation of the graph?
Chromosomes enter metaphase containing two chromatids, attached by a centromere. During anaphase, the chromatids are separated, each becoming a chromosome. Cytokinesis distributes the chromosomes into two separate cells
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintains homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release the hormone insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
If chemical signals in the cytoplams control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with an early M phase would most likely result in the
condensation of chromatin into chromsomes in preparation of nuclear division of both cells
The relative amount of DNA in a cell at various stages of the cell cycle is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following best describes how the amount of DNA in the cell changes during M phase? (graph)
The amount of DNA is halved as the cells divides into two daughter cells.
Cell communication is critical for the function of both unicellular and multicellular eukaryotes. Which of the following is likely true of cell signaling?
Similar cell signaling pathways in diverse eukaryotes are evidence of conserved evolutionary processes.
A subset of cells in the intestinal epithelium divides continually in order to replace dead cells. A microscopic examination of this population of the cells would show that most of them
are in mitosis.
The diagram above represents a model of signal transduction pathways (I and II) in a cell that is targeted by two different hormones ... Based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor? (image)
A mutation in the gene encoding PP that results in a nonfunctional protein.
In a certain signal transduction pathway, the binding of an extracellular molecule to a cell-surface protein results in a rapid increase in the concentration of cyclic AMP inside the cell ... Which of the following statements best describes the role of cyclic AMP in the signal transduction pathway?
It acts as a second messenger that helps relay and amplify the signal within the cell.
Which is not a characteristic of cancer cells?
contain only one genetic change.
During the cell cycle, replication of the genetic material takes place during which stage?
S stage
The figure above shows a model of a ligand precursor being cleaved to produce an active ligand that binds to a specific receptor. Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
The presence of a large precursor form of the ligand
A biologist counted 2500 cells from an embryo on a microscope slide and recorded the following data. If these cells had been dividing randomly, it could be reasonably concluded that
interphase is the longest stage of the cell cycle
The majority of cells in a mature plant or animal are not actively dividing. What stage are most of them arrested in?
G1
How does a nucleus in G2 differ from a nucleus in G1?
The G2 nucleus has twice the amount of DNA as the G1 nucleus.
Which of the following is a logical conclusion based on the data graphed? (no graph included in the test..)
The cell-dependent kinases are activated by the cyclins
A DNA mutation changes the shape of the extracellular domain of transmembrane receptor protein A produced by the cell. Which of the following predictions is the most likely consequence of the mutation?
The molecule that normally binds to protein A will no linger attach, deactivating the cellular response
Ethylene is an organic compound produced by ripening fruits. In a controlled experiment, researchers found that ethylene gas stimulated the ripening process in newly harvested fruits. Which of the following describes the most likely connection between natural ethylene production and fruit ripening?
Ethylene gas is a chemical signal through which ripening fruits trigger the ripening process in other fruits.
Based on the model of eukaryotic cell cycle regulation shown in the figure, which of the following best describes the effect of a drug that blocks the production of the mitotic cyclin?
The cell would be prevented from entering mitosis, and the cell will stop dividing.
What is most likely to happen to an animal's target cells that lack receptor for local regulators?
They might not be able to multiply in response to growth factors from nearby cells.
(Questions involving mice and hESC-B implant graphs) Based on the data in Figure 2, which of the following best justifies the researchers' claim that hESC b implants can functionally replace the mouse's naturally occurring b-cells?
The mouse with anhESC b implant successfully regulated blood glucose during STZ treatment but not after the implant was removed.
Based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC b-cells use negative feedback to return blood glucose levels to normal if blood glucose levels increase?
Increased insulin production by mouse b-cells -> increased glucose uptake by b-cells -> decreased secretion by body cells.
Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data presented in Figure 1?
Implanted hESC b-cells are effective at regulating blood glucose levels of mouse b-cells.
In contrast to type 1 diabetes. where there is no insulin production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failure of body cells to respond normally to insulin. Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following best predicts the effectiveness of using hESC b implantation to treat type 2 diabetes?
The treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC b-cells would stimulate glucose uptake by body cells.
Which of the following modifications to the experimental design would improve the reliability of the results presented in Figure 1?
Measuring blood glucose levels in a group of mice that were not given STZ.
Which statement about mitosis is true?
Two genetically identical daughter nuclei are formed
This cell is in (picture of cell with chromosome pairs lined up in the center of the cell and spindle fibers attached to them)
Metaphase of mitosis
A student claims that the Y chromosome contains the sex-determining region gene, known as the SRY gene, which causes male fetuses to develop testes. Which of the following provides correct information about cell signaling that supports the claim?
The SRY gene produces a protein that binds to specific regions of DNA in certain tissues, which affects the development of these tissues.
What phase of the cell cycle does the "maturation-promoting-factor" (MPF) trigger?
M (mitosis)
What is the role of cyclin in the cell?
to signal for the cell to divide
The three stages of cell signaling are?
reception, transduction, response
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) catalyze the phosphorylation of targeted protein by?
changes the shape and the function of the targeted proteins
Epinephrine is a protein hormone found in many animals. Epinephrine stimulates a signaling pathway that results in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose in the liver cells. Which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown?
Epinephrine binds to a cell-surface receptor; the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP.
Microtubules that form the mitotic spindle tend to originate from or terminate in
centrioles and kinetochores
The mechanism of action of many common medications involves interfering with the normality that cells use to respond to hormone signals. Which of the following best describes a drug directly interferes with a signal transduction pathway?
a medication enters the target cell and inhibits an enzyme that normally synthesizes a second messenger
Mitosis without cytokinesis will result in
one cell with two nuclei
Which statement correctly distinguishes kinetochore microtubules from polar microtubules?
kinetochore microtubules attach to the chromosomes whereas polar microtubules extend from one polar to the other
Which of the following diagrams best represents hormone activity?
(This is an image) Its a cell and it has a STEROID HORMONE entering the cell, where it binds to the RECEPTOR MOLECULE then theres the nucleus that has HORMONE-RECEPTOR COMPLEX and TRANSCRIPTION and connected to the nucleus is a line that is translation)
(this one she forgot to include the answer on the test) Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones that control cellular responses through several diagrams pathways. One of the signaling pathways involves the glucocorticoid receptor ... A simplified model of the glucocorticoid receptor signaling pathway is represented in Figure 1.
The glucocoticoid receptor will remain associated with the accessory proteins
In mammals, an increase in the concentration of sodium in the blood triggers the release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) from the pituitary gland. As the concentration of sodium in the blood returns to previous levels, the release of ADH from the pituitary gland is reduced. Based on the information presented, which of the following describes the most likely role of ADH in maintaining blood osmolarity?
ADH promotes an increase in the movement of water into the bloodstream.
The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA
DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the resulting p21 protein suppresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired.
A feature of organic compounds NOT found in inorganic compounds is the presence of
carbon atoms covalently bonded to each other
What most likely causes the trends in oxygen concentration shown in the graph above?
Photosynthesis produces more oxygen than is consumed by respiration during the day.
A human kidney filters about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately two liters of liquid and nutrient waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolved substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is secreted in response to reduced plasma volume. ADH targets the collecting ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporins into their plasma membranes and an increased reabsorption of water.

If ADH secretion is inhibited, which of the following would initially result?
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine.
A prokaryotic cell has which of the following?
Plasma membrane
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
A student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition.

• 28% adenine

• 20% thymine

• 35% cytosine

• 17% guanine

Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
Single-stranded DNA
Which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?
Is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?
A researcher proposes a model of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction in which a reactant is converted to a product. The model is based on the idea that the reactant passes through a transition state within the enzyme-substrate complex before the reactant is converted to the product.

Which of the following statements best helps explain how the enzyme speeds up the reaction?
The enzyme's active site binds to and stabilizes the transition state, which decreases the activation energy of the reaction.
All of the following cell components are found in prokaryotic cells EXCEPT
Nuclear envelope
Amylase is a protein that catalyzes the conversion of starch to simple sugars. Amylase activity in an aqueous solution can be measured by using iodine as a starch indicator. A solution containing iodine and starch will have a dark-blue color, whereas a solution containing iodine but no starch will have a light-brown color. The color change of an iodine solution from dark blue to light brown can be used to measure the rate at which starch is converted to simple sugars.

A student designs an experiment to investigate the effect of environmental pH
on amylase function. The design of the experiment is presented in Table 1.


Which of the following statements best justifies the inclusion of test tube V
as a control in the experiment?
It will show the color change that occurs in the absence of enzyme activity.
ATP serves as a common energy source for organisms because
its energy can be easily transferred to do cellular work.
Ethylene causes fruits to ripen. In a signaling pathway, receptors activate transcription factors, which ultimately leads to ripening.

Which of the following best supports the claim that ethylene initiates the signal transduction pathway that leads to ripening of fruit?
Loss-of-function mutations in ethylene receptors result in changes to the ripening process.
Organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum have membranes that compartmentalize reactions and other metabolic processes. To function properly, the organelles must move substances across their membranes.

Which of the following statements describes a feature shared by mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum that increases the efficiency of their basic functions?
They have highly folded membranes.
Water and ammonia interact to form hydrogen bonds, as represented in the figure.

Which statement best helps explain the formation of the hydrogen bond represented in the figure?
The nitrogen has a partial negative charge, and the hydrogen attached to the oxygen has a partial positive charge.
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the
condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells.
In short-day (long-night) plants, the critical environmental factor that induces flowering is the
duration of uninterrupted dark only.
Which of the following claims is scientifically accurate and consistent with an observation that a decrease in lysosome production within a cell leads to a decline in mitochondrial activity?
Fewer lysosomes will be available to break down macromolecules to provide the necessary nutrients for cellular respiration.
Vertebrate immune responses involve communication over short and long distances. Which of the following statements best helps explain how cell surface proteins, such as MHC proteins and T cell receptors, mediate cell communication over short distances?
The proteins receive electrical signals from nerve cells.
Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increasing the permeability of the mitochondrial membranes to large molecules?
—
Figure 1 shows a model of a signal transduction cascade, initiated by the binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor protein A.

A DNA mutation changes the shape of the extracellular domain of transmembrane receptor protein A produced by the cell. Which of the following predictions is the most likely consequence of the mutation?
The molecule that normally binds to protein A will no longer attach, deactivating the cellular response.
Which of the following conclusions is most clearly supported by the representations of nucleic acid #1 and nucleic acid #2 ?
Nucleic acid #1 contains adenine-thymine base pairs, whereas nucleic acid #2 does not.
The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels.
The model shown in the figure represents the role of two hormones, calcitonin and parathyroid hormone (PTH), in maintaining normal blood calcium levels in humans. If a dietary change results in an increase in blood calcium concentration above normal levels, which of the following is the most likely effect on calcium homeostasis?
—
The diagram above shows a developing worm embryo at the four-cell stage. Experiments have shown that when cell 3 divides, the anterior daughter cell gives rise to muscle and gonads and the posterior daughter cell gives rise to the intestine. However, if the cells of the embryo are separated from one another early during the four-cell stage, no intestine will form. Other experiments have shown that if cell 3 and cell 4 are recombined after the initial separation, the posterior daughter cell of cell 3 will once again give rise to normal intestine. Which of the following is the most plausible explanation for these findings?
A cell surface protein on cell 4 signals cell 3 to induce formation of the worm's intestine.
Researchers determined the average amount of time that a particular type of eukaryotic cell spends in each phase of the cell cycle. The data collected by the researchers are represented in Figure 1.

Based on Figure 1, what percent of the time required to complete a full cycle do the cells typically spend in interphase?
95%
Type 1 diabetes results from the destruction of insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. Individuals with type 1 diabetes produce insufficient amounts of insulin, a hormone that regulates the concentration of glucose in the blood.

Which of the following best explains how treatment with a drug that stimulates the production of insulin receptors on target cells will affect the insulin signaling pathway in an individual with type 1 diabetes?
—
Which of the following statements is true regarding the movement of substances across cell membranes?
Ions are unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the nonpolar tail regions of the phospholipids are hydrophobic.
Which two cellular organelles in eukaryotes have both electron transport systems and chemiosmotic mechanisms?
Chloroplasts and mitochondria
Which of the following best describes the role of cell-to-cell communication during a response to an invasion of antigens?
Chemicals that are secreted from antigen-presenting cells then activate helper T cells.
Adjacent plant cells have narrow channels called plasmodesmata that pass through the cell walls of the connected cells and allow a cytoplasmic connection between the cells.
Which of the following statements best describes a primary function of plasmodesmata?
They allow the movement of molecules from one cell to another, enabling communication between cells.
A hydrophilic peptide hormone is produced in the anterior pituitary gland located at the base of the brain. The hormone targets specific cells in many parts of the body.
Which of the following best explains a possible mechanism that would enable the hormone to efficiently reach all of the target cells in the body?
The hormone is released into the bloodstream where it can be transported to all cells with the correct receptors.
G proteins are a family of receptor proteins that are involved in transmitting signals from outside a cell to inside a cell. When a signaling molecule binds to a G protein, the G protein is activated. The G protein then activates an enzyme that produces a second messenger called cAMP.
Which of the following describes a critical role of cAMP during the transduction stage of a G protein signal transduction pathway?
cAMP results in the activation of an enzyme that amplifies the signal by acting on many substrate molecules.
Which of the following best describes the component that metformin represents in a signal transduction pathway that regulates glucose production in the liver?
It is a ligand that activates the signal transduction pathway of the activation of AMPK.
Which of the following steps in a signaling pathway typically occurs first once a chemical messenger reaches a target cell?
A ligand binds to a receptor.
During a fight-or-flight response, epinephrine is released into the body's circulatory system and transported throughout the body. Some cells exhibit a response to the epinephrine while other cells do not.
Which of the following justifies the claim that differences in components of cell signaling pathways explain the different responses to epinephrine?
Cell signaling depends on the ability to detect a signal molecule. Not all cells have receptors for epinephrine. Only cells with such receptors are capable of responding.
Signal transduction may result in changes in gene expression and cell function, which may alter phenotype in an embryo. An example is the expression of the SRY gene, which triggers the male sexual development pathway in mammals. This gene is found on the Y chromosome.
Which statement provides the evidence to justify the claim that signal transduction may result in an altered phenotype?
If the SRY gene is absent or nonfunctional, the embryo will exhibit female sexual development.
Which of the following statements best justifies the claim that changes in the expression of ced−9 in C. elegans can affect regulation of apoptosis in the cell?
An experiment showed that a mutation in the ced−9 gene led to excessive cell death in C. elegans.
Adjacent plant cells have narrow channels called plasmodesmata that pass through the cell walls of the connected cells and allow a cytoplasmic connection between the cells.
Which of the following statements best describes a primary function of plasmodesmata?
They allow the movement of molecules from one cell to another, enabling communication between cells.
Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of a loss of function of the insulin receptor's intracellular domain?
The storage of GLUT4 in vesicles inside the cell will increase.
Which of the following outcomes will most likely result from the inactivation of the beta-2 adrenergic receptor?
The rate of glycogen synthesis in the cell will increase.
Which of the following changes in the FGFR signaling pathway is most likely to result in uncontrolled cell proliferation?
The irreversible association of FGFR proteins
A researcher found a mutation that resulted in the PFK enzyme being unable to bind ATP to the allosteric site. Which of the following best predicts the effect of the mutation?
Negative feedback regulation does not occur, so the enzyme will be active when glycolysis is not needed.
Which of the following best predicts what will happen to the blood glucose level if the person has another meal at 5 p.m
Immediately after the meal, the blood glucose level will increase, and then insulin will be secreted to counter the increase.
Warfarin is a drug used to treat certain blood clots. Warfarin blocks the formation of the active form of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors. Based on the model, which of the following best predicts the effects of warfarin on a patient?
Factor X will not be activated, which will prevent thrombin from forming.
Based on Table 1, what percent of the life cycle of yeast cells is spent in DNA replication?
25 percent
Based on the sample means, which of the following conclusions about the cells in the growing root tips of Zea mays seedlings is best supported by the results of the experiment?
More cells are produced per unit of time in the root tips growing in compact sand than in the root tips growing in loose sand.
Based on Figure 1, which of the following statements correctly links a stage of the cell cycle with the event occurring at that stage?
Synthesis of sufficient DNA for two daughter cells occurs in stage II.
Which of the following statements is consistent with the data in Figure 1?
There is a change from 3 to 6 picograms of DNA because DNAis replicated before each round of cell division.
Which of the following most accurately describes an observation and an effect of the viral infection indicated by the data in Table 1?
Seventy-five percent of the virus-infected cells are found in mitosis. The virus stimulates frequent cell division.
Based on the data, the percent of the mitotic cells that were in metaphase is closest to which of the following?
18%
The epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR is a cell surface receptor. When a growth factor binds to EGFR, the receptor is activated. The activated EGFR triggers a signal transduction pathway, which leads to increased frequency of cell division.
Which of the following best predicts the effect of a mutation that causes EGFR to be active in the absence of a growth factor?
Increased cell division will lead to the formation of a tumor.
The tumor suppressor protein p53 binds to DNA and activates target genes, which results in the synthesis of p21, CD95, and other proteins. The p21 protein promotes cell-cycle arrest, whereas the CD95 protein promotes apoptosis.
Which of the following will most likely result from a loss of p53 function?
Uncontrolled cell proliferation
Which statement best predicts why a cell's progression through the cell cycle might be halted at the G1/S checkpoint?
There are not enough nucleotides available to construct new DNA.
Which of the following observations best supports the claim that mitochondria evolved from once-free-living prokaryotic cells by the process of endocytosis?
Mitochondria are surrounded by a double membrane.
Figure 1. Section of a cell's plasma membrane, showing ion concentrations and membrane proteins

Based on the model presented in Figure 1, which of the following changes will most likely result from a depletion of available ATP stores inside the cell?
The Na+ concentration inside the cell will increase.
Exposure to cellulase is known to damage the structure of the cell wall. An experiment is set up in which beetroot cells are placed in an aqueous solution with cellulase and in one without cellulase.
Which of the following results best refutes the alternative hypothesis that selective permeability is a consequence of the cell wall?
When beetroot cells are placed in a solution with cellulase, the solution remains clear.
Which cellular component will be found in the widest range of organisms in the sample?
The ribosome, since all organisms need to synthesize proteins.
The cell membrane is selectively permeable due to its structure. Thus, the internal environment of the cell is distinct from the external environment of the cell. One biologist hypothesizes that small nonpolar molecules readily pass through the membrane. Another biologist alternatively hypothesizes that these types of molecules require channel and transport proteins that are embedded in the membrane in order to move across the membrane.
Which of the following data would best refute this alternative hypothesis?
CO2 and N2 movement in and out of cells is unaffected when membrane protein activity is blocked.
Based on the information provided, Gaucher disease results most directly from a defect in the function of which of the following organelles?
The lysosome
A certain type of specialized cell contains an unusually large amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
Which of the following functions is this cell type most likely specialized to perform?
The production and secretion of proteins
Two competing hypotheses exist regarding the cell membrane structure. One hypothesis states that membrane structure is static and membrane components throughout the bilayer are rigidly bound. Alternatively, the other hypothesis states that cell membranes are a fluid mosaic in which membrane components may drift within the bilayer around the surface of the cell. An experiment is set up in which membrane proteins of two different cells are fluorescently labeled with two different colors and then fused as shown in Figure 1.
Which of the following results, one hour after membrane fusion, best supports the alternative hypothesis that the cell membrane is a fluid mosaic?
The membrane proteins from each cell have mixed and drifted within the bilayer, which supports the fluid mosaic model of cell membranes. Cell membranes consist of a structural framework of phospholipid molecules that is embedded with proteins and steroids that may flow around the surface of the cell within the bilayer.
In an experiment, researchers compared the growth of two different plants, plant X and plant Y. The researchers maintained the plants under nearly identical conditions and observed that plant X grew faster than plant Y. The researchers also observed that the inner mitochondrial membranes of plant X had more folds than did those of plant Y.
Which of the following conclusions about increasing the number of folds in the inner mitochondrial membrane is best supported by the results of the experiment?
It increases the surface area available for ATP production, which results in faster cell growth.
Cholesterol is a naturally occurring substance that helps regulate the fluidity of a cell's plasma membrane. A cholesterol molecule can be represented as having a polar head and a nonpolar region, as shown in the figure. The figure presents a cholesterol molecule. A black dot indicates the polar head, which is attached to a nonpolar region that is represented by a sequence of four hexagons or a pentagon, each of which shares one side with the previous and/or next component of the region.
Which of the following models shows how cholesterol molecules most likely interact with the phospholipid bilayer of a cell's plasma membrane?
The model correctly shows the polar heads of the cholesterol molecules interacting with the polar heads of the phospholipids. Also, the model correctly shows the nonpolar regions of the cholesterol molecules interacting with the hydrophobic interior of the phospholipid bilayer.

Which of the following transport mechanisms will be affected most directly by a temporary shortage of ATP molecules inside the cell?
The transport of glucose molecules against a concentration gradient
Aldosterone (a steroid hormone) is a small, nonpolar, hydrophobic molecule that enters a target cell by moving across the plasma membrane, down a concentration gradient.
Based on the information presented, how does aldosterone most likely enter target cells?
By simple diffusion
A student is using dialysis bags to model the effects of changing solute concentrations on cells. The student places one dialysis bag that contains 25 mL of distilled water into each of two beakers that are filled with 200 mL of distilled water. (Figure 1). The membrane of each dialysis bag membrane contains pores that allow small solutes such as monoatomic ions to pass through but are too small for anything larger to pass. After 30 minutes, 5 mL of a concentrated solution of albumin (a medium-sized, water-soluble protein) is added to one of the two beakers. Nothing is added to the other beaker. After two more hours at room temperature, the mass of each bag is determined. There is no change in the mass of the dialysis bag in the beaker to which no albumin was added.
Which of the graphs below best represents the predicted change in mass over time of the dialysis bag in the beaker to which albumin was added?
The graph indicates no change in the mass of the dialysis bag for the first 30 minutes in an isotonic environment and then shows a decrease in mass when the environment became hypertonic with the addition of albumin.
Lysosomes digest food particles brought into a cell by endocytosis. After a vesicle containing food particles fuses with a lysosome, H+ ions are transported into the lysosome from the cytosol. This significantly lowers the pH of the lysosome relative to the cytosol and activates the enzymes that digest the particles.
Which of the following best predicts what will happen to the lysosomal enzymes if the proteins that transport H+ ions from the cytosol into the lysosome are damaged?
The lysosomal enzymes will not become active, since there will be no active transport of H+ ions.
The figure presents a Euglenid. A chloroplast is labeled inside the euglenid. There is also an enlarged zoomed-in figure of a portion of the chloroplast. The three membranes of the envelope that surrounds the chloroplast are labeled Chloroplast Envelope, and the innermost membrane of the three is labeled Inner Membrane. The zoom-in also shows a portion of a thylakoid inside the chloroplast itself, and a label points to the thylakoid membrane. Figure 1. Simplified diagram of a euglenid, showing the structure of the chloroplast envelope. Which of the following claims about the origin of the euglenid chloroplast is best supported by the three-membrane structure of the envelope?
It originated from the incorporation of a photosynthetic prokaryote into a eukaryotic cell by two endosymbiotic events.
Researchers have proposed a model of chloroplast evolution. According to the model, chloroplasts evolved from a small prokaryotic organism that was engulfed by an ancestral eukaryote. The engulfed prokaryote then formed an endosymbiotic relationship with the eukaryotic host. Which of the following observations best supports the model?
Chloroplasts and some prokaryotes share similar photosynthetic reactions.
Intravenous (IV) therapy is used for fluid replacement in instances of dehydration in humans and other animals. One type of IV fluid is essentially a saltwater solution. To determine the best concentration for therapy in people, a team of students is researching the effects of solutions of different salt concentrations on red blood cells. The following observations were made from three different red blood cell samples viewed under a microscope. The figure presents three blood cells. The left cell is swollen, the middle cell is of normal disc shape, and the right cell is shrunken and irregular.
0.3% Saline (Cells swell) 0.9% Saline (Cells unchanged) 1.5% Saline (Cells shrink)
The team wants to extend the research project. What should the team of students do next to obtain data that are more conclusive?
Repeat the process with other salt concentrations.
Researchers investigate the transport of a certain protein into cells by endocytosis. In an experiment, the researchers incubate the cells in the presence of the protein and measure the amount of the protein that is absorbed into the cells over a five-minute period. Based on their observations, what should the researchers do to further clarify how the availability of the protein outside the cells affects the rate of endocytosis of the protein?
Incubate the cells in the presence of several different concentrations of the protein.
Certain bacteria can use both ethyl alcohol and acetate as sources of nutrients. In an experiment where both nutrients are available to a bacterial population, the following results were obtained and graphed.
What additional procedure would best help determine whether these movements are due to active transport or to passive transport?
Use two additional treatments, one containing only ethyl alcohol and one containing only acetate. Include a substance known to block ATP use by the plasma membrane. Compare the graphs of these two treatments to the original graph.
Active transport requires the availability of ATP. If the nutrients are actively transported, blocking ATP use should reduce the rate of transport along the whole concentration range. If these two graphs are the same as the original graph, the transport is passive. Separation of the nutrients eliminates the possibility that the two transport processes could interfere with each other.
Which of the following best describes how the ratio of the density of stomata (stomata per mm2) per CO2 concentration (ppm CO2) changes as the CO2 concentration increases?
The ratio decreases from 0.86 to 0.63 , because fewer stomata are needed at higher CO2 concentrations.
Some viral infections can lead to the rupture of the lysosome membrane. Which prediction of the effect of this disruption of cellular compartmentalization is most likely correct?
Hydrolytic enzymes will be released, which will cause cell death.
The figure shows a representation of a protein embedded in a cell membrane. The numbers indicate different structural regions of the protein.
The figure presents a cell membrane lipid bilayer. A protein is embedded in one half of the bilayer. The exposed surface of the protein that protrudes from the membrane is labeled 1, and the part of the protein that associates with the fatty acid tails in the interior of the membrane is labeled 2.
Based on the figure, which of the following statements best describes the relationship between regions 1 and 2 of the protein?
Region 1 is hydrophilic because it interacts with an aqueous environment, whereas region 2 is hydrophobic because it interacts with the interior of the membrane.
Some cells, such as intestinal cells, exchange a lot of material with their surroundings. The surface-to-volume ratio of these cells affects the efficiency of material exchange.
The table provides measurements of four different eukaryotic cells.

Cell 1 2 3 4
Total surface area (μm2) 40 60 80 100
Total volume (μm3) 20 10 30 20
Based on the data, which cell is likely to be most effective in the exchange of materials?
Cell 2
A study was conducted to understand the factors controlling the rate at which molecules or ions travel across cell membranes. An artificial membrane was created that was composed of a phospholipid bilayer only. The speed at which various substances crossed this membrane was measured. Some substances can pass through an actual cell membrane much faster than they passed through the artificial membrane in this study. Which of the following statements best explains this finding?
Actual cell membranes have a variety of proteins embedded in the membrane that are absent in the artificial membrane.
A group of mutations, known as MT-ND1, have been identified in mitochondrial DNA. These mutations are associated with a number of debilitating diseases stemming from the production of nonfunctional proteins in the mitochondria. Which of the following cellular deficiencies would most likely be related to these MT-ND1 mutations?
The cell is unable to complete reactions related to electron transport and ATP production.
A magnesium sulfate solution taken orally can cause a net movement of water into the large intestine, which results from water molecules diffusing through aquaporins embedded in the cells of the intestinal lining. By which of the following mechanisms do the water molecules most likely move into the large intestine?
By passive transport from an area of low osmolarity to an area of high osmolarity.
In an experiment, researchers provided a radiolabeled amino acid to living plant cells. After one hour, the researchers determined the amount of the radiolabeled amino acid that was in each of several subcellular compartments. The results of the experiment are represented in the table.
RELATIVE AMOUNTS OF RADIOLABELED AMINO ACID
Nucleus Mitochondria Endoplasmic Reticulum Cytosol
2.1 2.7 1.9 1
Which of the following conclusions about the radiolabeled amino acid is best supported by the results of the experiment?
It was mostly incorporated into proteins that regulate and manage metabolic reactions.
Researchers conducted an experiment to investigate the effects of a valinomycin treatment on skeletal muscle cells. Valinomycin is a naturally occurring substance that can be used as a drug. The results of the experiment are presented in the table.
Relative Rates of ATP Production
Time after Treatment Untreated Cells Valinomycin-Treated Cells
5 minutes 1.0 0.3
10 minutes 7.7 2.7
Which of the following claims about the effects of the valinomycin treatment is best supported by the data presented in the table?
The valinomycin treatment caused a decrease in the activity of the mitochondria.
Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is a disorder of red blood cells that causes the cells to be smaller and spherical instead of having the usual flattened, biconcave shape. The average diameter of normal red blood cells is 7.2μm, and the average diameter of red blood cells in a person with HS was found to be 6.7μm. The normal red blood cell has an average surface area of 136μm2 and an average volume of 91μm3. Which of the following provides an accurate calculation of the surface area to volume ratio of an HS red blood cell, as well as a prediction of its effect on the efficient transferring of oxygen compared to a normal red blood cell?
The ratio is 0.89 , and the cells are less efficient at transferring oxygen.
Figure 1. Testosterone movement across the cellular membrane
The figure presents a cellular membrane bilayer. A point between two lipid molecules on the outer surface of the membrane is labeled 1. A protein associated only with the outer surface membrane is labeled 2. A channel protein embedded in the membrane is labeled 3. A solid appearing protein with an extracellular chain of sugars is embedded in the membrane and is labeled 4.
Testosterone is a small steroid hormone that is important in cell signaling. Which of the following indicates where testosterone enters a cell and why it is able to cross at that point?
1, because testosterone is nonpolar and can diffuse through the membrane.

surface area to volume ratio
a variable that decreases as cells grow, so that it sets a limit to the size of cells.
lowest surface area to volume ratio is most likely to be
least effective in the exchange of materials
if the cell grows beyond a certain limit
not enough material will be able to cross the membrane fast enough to accommodate the increased cellular volume.
developing a model vs using different concentrations
The model would not help determine the best salt concentration; it would only present the mechanism involved (osmosis)
A magnesium sulfate solution taken orally can cause a net movement of water into the large intestine, which results from water molecules diffusing through aquaporins embedded in the cells of the intestinal lining.
By which of the following mechanisms do the water molecules most likely move into the large intestine?
By passive transport from an area of low osmolarity to an area of high osmolarity
water molecules move through aquaporins by diffusing from an area of low osmolarity to an area of high osmolarity, which is an example of passive transport.
Some viral infections can lead to the rupture of the lysosome membrane. Which prediction of the effect of this disruption of cellular compartmentalization is most likely correct?
Hydrolytic enzymes will be released, which will cause cell death.
the hydrolytic enzymes in lysosomes are important for the intracellular digestion of organic matter needed to maintain cell, the breakdown of cellular compartmentalization and the uncontrolled release of these enzymes into the cell would also digest important cellular structures.
hypotonic
Having a lower concentration of solute than another solution
hypotonic solution
Solute concentration is less than that inside the cell; cell gains water
hypertonic
when comparing two solutions, the solution with the greater concentration of solutes
hypertonic solution
Solute concentration is greater than that inside the cell; cell loses water
Which of the following observations best supports the claim that mitochondria evolved from once-free-living prokaryotic cells by the process of endocytosis?
The double membranes of mitochondria provide evidence that an ancestor of mitochondria, which was most likely a type of free-living aerobic bacterium, was ingested via endocystosis by a primitive eukaryotic cell.
3 membrane structure of chloroplasts and endosymbiotic theory
most likely resulted from two endosymbiotic events, with the middle membrane originating from the first event and the outer membrane originating from the second event
cell cycle control system
A cyclically operating set of molecules in the eukaryotic cell that both triggers and coordinates key events in the cell cycle
internal control + external adjustment
checkpoint
A control point in the cell cycle where stop and go-ahead signals can regulate the cycle
in G1, G2, and M phases
proteins that are in the control system
protein kinases and cyclines
protein kinase
The enzyme that transfers phosphate groups from ATP to protein, either activating or inactivating proteins
kinases
to be active needs to be attached to a cyclin
cyclin dependent kinase (cdk)
cyclin
a protein that gets its name from its cyclically fluctuating concentration in the cell
levels rise in S + G2 phases
MPF
Maturation-promoting factor (M-phase-promoting factor); a protein complex required for a cell to progress to M. The active form consists of cyclin and a protein kinase
molecular mechanisms that help regulate the cell cycle
-synthesis of cyclin in S->G2
-cyclin combines with Idk-> MPF, so cell passes G2 checkpoint to begin the M phase
-MPF phosphorylates proteins, in M phase
-A phase, MPH degrades leaving the M phase -> G1 phase
-G1, cyclin degrades and Cdk+MPF are recycled
G0 phase
A nondividing state occupied by cells that have left the cell cycle, sometimes reversibly after not passing the G1 checkpoint
many cells in this stage as they never divide (like muscle cells + nerve cells)
external factors that influence cell division
-lacking nutrient
-if growth medium includes different growth factors
growth factor
a protein released by certain cells that stimulates other cells to divide
difference cell types respond specifically to different growth factors
density dependent inhibition
crowded cells stop dividing, effect of an external physical factor on cell division
anchorage dependence
to divide, cells must be attached to a substratum (culture flask or external matrix of a tissue)
density dependent inhibition + anchorage dependence function
in cell culture
in body tissues, checking the growth of cells at optimal density and location in embryonic development and through out the organisms life
transformation
process in which one strain of bacteria is changed by a gene or genes from another strain of bacteria
causes cells to behave like cancer cells
metastasis
The spread of cancer cells beyond their original site
cell theory
-all living things are made of cells
-cells are the basic units of structure and function in living things
-new cells are produced from existing cells
prokaryote size vs eukaryote size
1-10 um vs 10-100um
why membrane bound organelles
separate functions/compartmentalization
localized environments for specific reactions
specific enzymes
specific metabolic activities
ph differs
why are cells microscopic
V3 but SA2
small cell > SA/V
allows wastes + nutrients to diffuse better
what allows particles to go through a membrane
molecular nature/cellular chemistry (hydrophilic/hydrophobic)
size
concentration
Robert brown
brownian motion
constant random motion
concentration gradient
A difference in the concentration of a substance across an area
membrane embedded with
proteins
cholesterol (reduces fluidity of membrane)
glycoproteins/ glycolipids
cytoskeleton attachment
cristae
Infoldings of the inner membrane of a mitochondrion that houses the electon transport chain and the enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of ATP
increases the SA
matrix
Innermost compartment of the mitochondrion
where citric acid cycle takes place
chloroplast
absorbs light + helps produce free energy in ATP in photosynthesis
stroma
most enzymes needed in photosynthesis are in the stroma
fluid filled space surrounding grana
thylakoid
help absorb sunlight, electron transport chain, ATP synthesis
imbedded in in stroma
grana
max the art of photosynthesis that can occur
increases SA
cytoskeleton
A network of fibers that holds the cell together, helps the cell to keep its shape, and aids in movement
network of protein structures that extend through the cytoplasm
microtubules
hollow rods made of tubulin
allows for a route for organelles to move around with motor proteins, shapes cells as they allow for chromosomes to be separated in division
guides organelle movement
microfilaments
thin solid rods made of actin filaments
pulling forces in the cell
help in cell motility
intermediate filaments
most nonpolar part of the cell
chain of helix coiled coil
help to bear tension, not in cell motility, mechanical support for plasma membrane
cilia
Hairlike projections that extend from the plasma membrane and are used for locomotion
moves materials across the cell surface motile + nonmotile
flagella
a projection from a prokaryotic cell that propels it through its liquid environment
locomotion
pseudopod
motility, prey, mitosis
smooth er
cholesterol synthesis/breakdown, fat metabolism, detoxification of drugs/toxins, makes lipids
lysosome
cell organelle filled with enzymes needed to break down certain materials in the cell
peroxisome
detoxify harmful metabolic toxins like alcohols and hydrogen peroxide, breaks down free radicals by converting them to H202 +enzyme catalase converts H202 to H20
chromosome
condensed threads of genetic material formed from chromatin as a cell prepares to divide
intercellular junction
cell adhesion proteins attach membranes of adjacent cells
low-density lipoprotein (LDL)
bad cholesterol
loose, fluffy molecule, has trouble going through the bloodstream
High-density lipoprotein (HDL)
good cholesterol
tightly packed and travels through bloodstream
cholesterol
reduces fluidity + temp stability
receptor proteins determine how well you use cholesterol
determine how well you use cholesterol
determine if something is wrong with genetics, LDL builds much faster
LDL accumulates if membranes lack cholesterol receptors
do plants have cholesterol
no
endomembrane system
A network of membranes inside and around a eukaryotic cell, related either through direct physical contact or by the transfer of membranous vesicles
protein traffic and metabolic functions
Which cell would be best for studying lysosomes?
not bacteria cell
phagocytic white blood cell
basal bodies
microtubule triplets; anchor cilia/flagella; foundation for new microtubules
centrioles forming the bases of cilia and flagella
cell fractionation
technique in which cells are broken into pieces and the different cell parts are separated
v separates cells into their component parts
Strong acids would likely destroy most organelles.
Consider two cells with the same volume but with very different surface areas due to differences in their shapes. The cell with the larger surface area is likely to
be involved in the rapid uptake of compounds from the cell's environment
not have a high metabolic rate, those are determined by what happens inside the cell, not by the shape of the cell
chromosomes present in the cell
Chromosomes are present even when cells are not actively synthesizing proteins.
Chromosomes do not only appear as a cell is about to divide.
Which of the following organelles is unlikely to show enhanced abundance in pancreatic cells that secrete large amounts of digestive enzymes?
free cytoplasmic ribosomes
Which of the following categories best describes the function of the rough endoplasmic reticulum?
manufactoring
energy processing organelles
Mitochondria and chloroplasts
Consider a protein that is made in the rough endoplasmic reticulum. You observe that when the synthesis of the protein is completed, the protein is located in the ER membrane. Where else in the cell might this protein be found?
embedded in the plasma membrane functioning in the transport of molecules into the cell
proteins that are inserted into the rough ER membrane are membrane proteins, not soluble proteins to be excreted
what is involved in the process of producing proteins for a chloroplast or mitochondrion
free cytoplasmic ribosomes
Proteins made on free cytoplasmic ribosomes
do not end up in the membranes of the endomembrane system
Which of the membranes is most likely to have a lipid composition that is distinct from the others
mitochondrial outer membrane
The plasma membrane is part of the endomembrane system and is composed of lipids made in the ER
reason for grouping the peroxisomes with chloroplasts and mitochondria
All of these organelles appear to increase in number by dividing
membranes on ribosomes
don't exist
Where would you expect to find proteins involved with movement of structures within a cell
cytoskeleton
Basal bodies are most closely associated with which of the following cell components
cilia
The microtubule assembly of a cilium or flagellum is anchored in the cell by a basal body
in plants gap junctions
don't occur
plasmodesmata
channels through cell walls that connect the cytoplasms of adjacent cells
Plasmolysis
Collapse of a walled cell's cytoplasm due to a lack of water
only processes with a negative ∆G are what?
spontaneous
The energy spontaneous process decreases the systems what?
free energy
Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increasing the concentration of substrate (ethyl alcohol), while keeping the concentration of the inhibitor (methyl alcohol) constant?
Competitive inhibition will decrease because the proportion of the active sites occupied by substrate will increase.
A researcher claims that the synthesis of ATP from ADP and inorganic phosphate (Pi) is essential to cellular function.

Which of the following statements best helps justify the researcher's claim?
ATP hydrolysis is an energy-releasing reaction that is often coupled with reactions that require an input of energy.
A researcher claims that only a portion of the light energy captured by green plants is available for growth and repair.

Which of the following observations best helps justify the researcher's claim?
As light energy is converted to chemical energy by metabolic processes, some of the energy is lost as heat.
A researcher designs an experiment to investigate the effect of environmental temperature on the function of an enzyme. For each trial included in the experiment, the researcher will add the enzyme and its substrate to an aqueous buffer solution and then measure the amount of product formed over 20 minutes.

Which of the following must remain the same for all trials of this experiment?
The initial concentration of the substrate
Which of the following statements best helps explain the reaction specificity of an enzyme?
The shape and charge of the substrates are compatible with the active site of the enzyme.
Glucose molecules are broken down into carbon dioxide and water during cellular respiration.
To what macromolecule class does glucose belong?
Is this reaction catabolic or anabolic?
Endergonic or exergonic?
Dehydration/condensation or hydrolysis?
Spontaneous or nonspontaneous?
-ΔG or +ΔG?
-ΔS or +ΔS?
-ΔH or +ΔH?
carbohydrates
Catabolic
Exergonic
hydrolysis
spontaneous
-ΔG
+ΔS
-ΔH
Photosynthesis uses the energy of sunlight to combine carbon dioxide and water into sugars and oxygen.
Is this reaction catabolic or anabolic?
Endergonic or exergonic?
Dehydration/condensation or hydrolysis?
Spontaneous or nonspontaneous?
-ΔG or +ΔG?
-ΔS or +ΔS?
-ΔH or +ΔH?
Anabolic
endergonic
dehydration/condensation
nonspontaneous
+ΔG
-ΔS
+ΔH
Reactions in a closed system eventually reach equilibrium
Chemical reactions never cease in our cells. Why?
Cells in our body experience a constant flow of materials in and out, preventing metabolic pathways from reaching equilibrium
The enzyme hexokinase catalyzes the conversion of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate, which is an important step in glycolysis. The reaction involves the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to glucose.

Either a glucose molecule or a water molecule can fit in the active site of hexokinase. The presence of a water molecule in hexokinase's active site would result in the hydrolysis of ATP to ADP instead of the conversion of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate.

Which of the following statements best helps explain the reaction specificity of hexokinase?
Glucose has the right shape and charge to cause hexokinase to undergo a structural change needed for catalysis, whereas water does not.
Which of the following can be used to determine the rate of enzyme-catalyzed reactions?
Rate of disappearance of the substrate
According to the chemiosmotic theory (chemiosmotic coupling), the energy required to move protons from the mitochondrial matrix to the intermembrane space against a concentration gradient comes most directly from
electrons flowing along the electron transport
chain
ATP serves as a common energy source for organisms because
its energy can be easily transferred to do cellular work
During respiration, most ATP is formed as a direct result of the net movement of
protons down a concentration gradient
The results of the experiment can be used as evidence in support of which of the following scientific claims about mitochondrial activity?
ATP production in mitochondria requires a hydrogen ion gradient that favors movement of protons into the mitochondrial matrix.
Oxygen consumption can be used as a measure of metabolic rate because oxygen is
necessary for ATP synthesis by oxidative phosphorylation
The reactions of glycolysis occur in the
cytosol
Two nutrient solutions are maintained at the same pH. Actively respiring mitochondria are isolated and placed into each of the two solutions. Oxygen gas is bubbled into one solution. The other solution is depleted of available oxygen. Which of the following best explains why ATP production is greater in the tube with oxygen than in the tube without oxygen?
The rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen.
When hydrogen ions are pumped out of the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and into the space between the inner and outer membranes, the result is
he creation of a proton gradient
Which metabolic process is common to both aerobic cellular respiration and alcoholic fermentation?
glycolysis
Which of the following best describes the function
of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic
cellular respiration?
They accept electrons during oxidation-reduction
reactions
Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation
Which of the following statements about mitochondrial chemiosmosis is NOT true?
Heat energy is required to establish the electron transport chain.
Within the cell, many chemical reactions that, by themselves, require energy input (have a positive free-energy change) can occur because the reactions
may be coupled to the hydrolysis of ATP
If ATP breakdown is inhibited, which of the following types of movement across the cell membrane is also inhibited?
Passage of a solute across a concentration gradient
A dog is following the scent of a jackrabbit. Which of the following accurately describes how the dog's brain integrates information for smell?
Chemoreceptor cells in the nasal cavity send impulses to the appropriate area of the brain
Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950's most directly support which of the following claims about DNA?
The basic molecular structure is a helix
The processes illustrated in the models depicted above all result in which of the following?
An increase in genetic variation
What most likely causes the trends in oxygen concentration shown in the graph above?
Photosynthesis produces more oxygen than is consumed by respiration during the day.
Data regarding the presence or absence of five derived traits in several different species are shown in the table below.
Y, W, V, Z, X
Which of the following best explains the change in frequency distribution of fur color phenotypes in the mouse population, as shown in the figure above?
The field was composed primarily of light-colored soil and little vegetation, affording gray move protection from predators
A new mutation that arose in one copy of gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation created an overactive version of protein X.
Protein X normally stimulates cell division, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
Which of the following statements is most consistent with the phylogenic gene tree shown?
The common ancestor of reptiles, birds, and mammals produced amniotic eggs
A student in a biology class crossed a drosophila melanogaster having a gray body and long wings with a female having a black body and apterous wings. The following distribution of traits was observed in the offspring. Which of the following is supported by the data?
Genes for the two traits are located close together on the same chromosome, and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci
If Axon 2 was damaged before the pinprick, which of the following is most likely?
The person's finger will not withdraw reflexively
The healthy human immune system responds to pathogens with both specific and nonspecific processes. Which of the following models depicts a nonspecific response?
Cytotoxic T cell
The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
A decrease in Thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increases TSH secretion.
The data below demonstrates the frequency of tasters and non-tasters of a certain compound in four isolated populations that are in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The allele for non-tasters is recessive. In which population is the frequency of the recessive allele highest?
population:3
Which of the following is the best explanation for the pattern of change in mass of the organisms over time?
cellular respiration
Based on the data shown in Figure 1, which of the following best describes the genotypes of individual family members in the pedigree?
Healthy individuals may posses one mutant allele of the hemoglobin
Which of the following mRNA sequences is derived from the HbS allele?
CUGACUCCUGUGGUGAAGUCU
Which of the following individuals represented in the pedigree would have the greatest selective advantage in an area where malaria is common?
11
The genotype of individual 1 must be...
aa
Which of the following best describes the difference between the frequency of the allele that causes the syndrome in the general population and the frequency of the allele in the isolated population?
The frequency of the Ellis-van Creveld allele is .0447 in the isolated population and .0026 in the general population
Assuming the population is in Hardy-Weinburg equilibrium, what percent of the North American population is homozygous dominant for the ability to taste PTC?
.11
Based on the data shown, calculate the average rate of increase in oxygen consumption for animals acclimated to 5 degrees C as the temperature increases from 10-30 degrees C.
5.5
Which of the following cube-shaped cells would be most efficient in removing waste by diffusion?
...
Which of the following statements best supports the claim that organisms share fundamental processes as a result of evolution?
smallest cube
Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
All organisms share a genetic code organized into triplet codons, making it possible for one organism to express a gene from another organism
Which of the following procedures was most likely followed to determine the change in beak size?
The beak size in a large number of finches was measured every year from 1981-1987
Which of the following statements might best explains the increase in average beak size in the finch population during the drought?
Finches with bigger beaks are better able to crack thick-walled seeds and produce more surviving offspring
Which of the following best describes the mechanism behind the change in beak size in the finch population?
A change in gene frequencies in the finch population due to selective pressure fro the environmental change
The reversal in beak size from 1988-1993 was most likely related to which of the following events?
The end of the drought
The sequences for two short fragments of DNA are shown above. Which of the following is one way in which these two segments would differ?
Segment 1 would become denatured at a lower temperature than would Segment 2 because A-T base pairs have 2 hydrogen bonds, whereas G-C base pairs have 3
During aerobic cellular respiration, oxygen gas is consumed at the same rate as carbon dioxide gas is produced. In order to provide accurate volumetric measurements of oxygen gas consumption, the experimental setup should include which of the following?
A substance that removes carbon dioxide gas
According to the data, the mice at 10C demonstrated greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than did the mice at 25C. This is most likely explained by which of the following statements?
The mice at 10C had a higher rate of ATP production than the mice at 25C
The difference in trends in oxygen consumption among crickets and mice is due to their
mode of internal temperature regulation
Which of the following best predicts which diagrammed microscope view the laboratory worker would see and best explains why?
View 2 b/c the rate of water movement into RBC's equals the rate of water movement out of the cells
Which of the following includes the most likely change in the coloration if the beetle population after pollution and a correct rationale for the change?
The coloration in the population shifted toward more darker-colored beetles, as in diagrams IV. The lighter colored beetles were found more easily by predators than were the darker-colored beetles
Which of the following graphs properly represents the humoral immune response when an individual is exposed to the same antigen more than once?
graph makes "S"
If the input water is labeled with 18O. Which of the following is most likely explanation?
During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen is released
A certain species of plant has four unlinked genetic loci, W,X,Y, and Z. Each genetic locus has one dominant allele and one recessive allele. For a plant with the genotype WwXxYyZz, what is the probability that the plant will produce a gamete with a haploid genotype of Wxyz?
1/16
Membrane-bound organelles have been an important component in the evolution of complex, multicellular organisms. Which of the following best summarizes an advantage of eukaryotic cells having internal membranes?
Organelles isolated specific reactions, increasing metabolic efficiency
DNA replication occurs
during the S phase of the cell cycle
Which of the following normally leads to the production of functional messenger RNA in eukaryotic cells?
The removal of portions of RNA known as intervening sequences (introns)
The mRNA transcribed from the DNA would read
5' AUC AAG UUU GGC GCA UUG UAA 3'
Which of the following modifications of the DNA would produce the greatest change in the primary structure of the polypeptide chain?
Deleting the first T in the second triplet
In which of the following would there NOT be a change in the amino acid sequence of the peptide coded for by this DNA?
Changing the 3' AAA 5' to read 3' AAG 5'
Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950s most directly support which of the following claims about DNA?
The basic molecular structure is a helix
In 1944, Avery, Macleod, and McCarty preformed transformational experiments using live, harmless bacteria and extracts from virulent bacteria treated with various enzymes. Which of the following enzymes were used and why?
Proteases and RNases to rule out protein and RNA as the transforming factors
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP? Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
...
The process illustrated in the models depicted above all result in which of the following?
an increase in genetic variation
The figure above shows a model of a ligand precursor being cleaved to produce an active ligand that binds to a specific receptor. Which of the following is most likely to reduce the binding of the active ligand to its receptor?
A mutation in the receptor gene that causes a substitution of a charged amino acid for a nonpolar amino acid in ligand binding site of the receptor
Which of the following occur sin all species of living organisms and may lead to an increase in genetic variation?
mutations in the genome
A new mutation that arose in one copy of gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation directly caused the tumor?
Protein X normally stimulates cell division, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
The observation that the rabbit mRNA was successfully translated in the frog tissues supports which of the following conclusions?
Rabbits and frogs share a common genetic code for expressing heritable information
The electrophoresis results best support which of the following conclusions?
cells from different tissues share a common ability to use genetic material from a foreign source to produce protein
Which of the following is the best justification for why the rabbit hemoglobin proteins were found throughout the tadpole?
The mRNA injected into the newly fertilized frog eggs is distributed in the ctypolasm of every daughter cell during division
Which of the following conclusions is most consistent with the results of the experiment?
The subunits of hemoglobin differ in the size, shape, or charge
Given that equal amounts of the different mRNAs were injected into fertilized frog eggs, which of the following conclusions is most consistent with the electrophoresis results?
B-hemoglobin mRNA is trasnlated more efficiently tha a-hemoglobin in mRNA
Based on the data shown in Figure 1, which of the following best describes the genotypes of individual family members in the pedigree?
Healthy individuals may possess one mutant allel of the hemoglobin beta gene
The HbS allele, which causes sickle-cell disease, results from a mutation in the DNA sequence shown in Figure 2 that produces a valine in the plate of a glutamic acid reside in the hemoglobin protein. Which of the following mRNA sequences is derived from the HbS allele?
5' CUG ACU CCU GUG GAG AAG UCU 3
The restriction endonuclease Mst II recognizes the sequence 5' CCT(N)AG(where N= any nucleotide) and cuts DNA at that site, producing separate fragments. Which of the following best explains the banding patterns exhibited in Figure 4?
The Hba DNA contains a recognition site for the Mst restirction enzyme
Possessing a single copy of the HbS allele has been shown to provide some resistance to infection by Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite that causes malaria. Which of the following individuals represented in the pedigree would have the greatest selective advantage in an area where malaria is common.
II
The Trp operon is a coordinately regulated group of genes that are required for tryptophan biosynthesis in E. Coli. Based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?
In the polymerase of trptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from trasncribing the operon
Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
Gene A promotes neuron development; gene B promotes programmed cell death in neuronal precursors.
Which of the following diagrams best represents hormone-activated gene expression?
has hormone receptor complex and receptor molecule
The bacterium Vibrio cholerae is harmless unless a lysogenic bacteriophage provides the gene coding for the cholera toxin, which converts the bacterium to the virulent form that causes cholera. Which of the following best explains how the gene encoding cholera toxin becomes part of the bacterial genome? (
The bacteriophage inserts the toxin gene into the host cell DNA, and the gene is expressed with the rest of the host cell's genes
During the formation of vertebrae, the most anterior embryonic segment that expresses Hoxc6 marks the end of the cervical (neck) vertebrae and the beginning of the thoracic (rib) vertebrae. All mammals have seven cervical vertebrae. Which of the following statements is most likely to be true?
The most anterior expression of Hoxc6 is the eighth vertebra in mammals.
The process depicted in the image above is best summarized by which of the following descriptions?
During meiosis, crossing over leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes.
Over several years, bacteria were isolated from members of a human population and tested for antibiotic resistance. The percent of bacterial isolates that were found to be antibiotic resistant is presented in the graph above for each year of the study. Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the information presented in the graph?
Natural selection over multiple generations is favoring antibiotic resistance in the population of bacteria
Which of the following best describes how stickleback in the same population with the identical copies of the Pitx1 gene can still show phenotype variation in the pelvic spine character?
Expression of the Pitx 1 gene is affected by mutations at other genetic loci
A mutation that affects Pitx1 gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of following genetic loci?
Promoter
In sticklebacks which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?
the jaw does not develop normally, but a prenounced pelvic spine does develop ebacsue the pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing pelvis but not in the developing jaw
which of the following describes a possible selective mechanism to explain why freshwater sticklebacks typically have reduced pelvic spines?
reduced pelvic spines increase the liklihood of escaping predators in freshwater environments
which of the following will provide the most direct evidence that flower color in hydrangea is due primarily to soil condition?
growing cuttings from the same hydrangea under controlled conditions that very only with regard to soil pH
Comparison of DNA sequences in Table II suggests that a functional GULO gene in lemurs can have a G, C, or T, at position 21 but only a G at position 22. Which of the following pairs of predictions is most helpful in explaining the discrepancy?
No change in proteins, a premature stop codon or an amino acid
Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutation at nucleopeptide position 7 in the GULO gene of humans?
The deletion of the single nucleotide causes a frame shift, change in the primary structure
Which of the following best describes the genetic variation among the primate species?
Food sources where non-Madagascar primtes lived provided ample
Which of the following phylogenic trees best illustrates
x before chimp and human
The cells lining the respiratory tract
the new viral strains inherited a micture of genetic material from both the
In the RNA world model for the origin of life
some RNA molecules in comtemporary cells have catalytic function
Which of the following best represents the DNA of the two daughter cells produced when a bacteria cell with this particular mismatch replicates the DNA and divides?
CG bottom, TA top reads(CGTA bottom to top)
Which of the following biotechnology approaches could be used to identify ferritin mRNA in a sample of total cellular RNA?
RNA samples could be seperted by size using agarose gel electr
In individuals with iron rich diets, intracellular levels of iron are higher than
translation of ferritin mRNA is stimulated by iron
The data can best be used to support which of the following claims about the mechanism for regulating ferritin gene expression>
iron increases ribosome binding to ferritin mRNA
Which of the following is the best explanation for the observation (ferritin)?
Ferritin IREs arose in the common ancestor of multicellular organisms, whereas nonferritin IRE's arose later in
Hereditary hemochromatosis, HHRC, is
reduced levels of ferritin protein because there is less iron in the cytosol of the affected individuals
Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?
a defect in the cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells. Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?
An ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells.
Sickle-cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
Some strains of the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes secrete poisonous substances called exotoxins. The genes encoding the exotoxins are thought to have originated in bacteriophages, which are viruses that infect bacteria. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism by which the S. pyogenes acquired the ability to produce the exotoxins?
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome
The validity of the cladogram is best supported by molecular evidence for which of the following changes in the amino acid composition of the beta-hemoglobin protein during the evolution of these species?
Arginine to leucine at position X on the cladogram
Steroid hormones, such as testosterone, pass through the plasma membrane and bind to an intracellular protein, as shown in the diagram below. The hormone-receptor complex then enters the nucleus, where it interacts with DNA to promote transcription of a specific gene.
Based on the information presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to the DNA.
The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mitochondrial DNA, because
maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring
The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the resulting p21 protein suppresses cell division until the DNA damage is repaired.
Which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteolytic enzymes are evolutionarily conserved among species?
If a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a precursor protein from another species, does correct cleavage occur?
Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon?
Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His
The following the b-hemoglobin
DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading frame of . Given the codon chart listed below, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
The reading frame of the sequence would shift, causing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point.
Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
DNA
Which of the following best describes the
structure of the viral genome?
Single-stranded DNA
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell? (
The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP? (
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
Which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?
Noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule.
Which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown above?
Both processes increase genetic variation.
When the components in pathway II are sequentially activated, downstream signaling by the G protein is inhibited. Based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
(
A mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, an individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and each sister chromatid will move towards opposite poles of the cell.
Noncancerous cells undergo a pathway that ultimately ends in apoptosis, programmed cell death. Cancerous cells, however, do not undergo apoptosis. They also do not follow many other regulatory processes experienced by other cells. Which of the following is NOT a growth process ignored by cancer cells?
interphase
The major contribution of sexual reproduction to evolution is that __________.
it provides a method to increase genetic variation
In a life cycle such as that shown below, if the zygote's chromosome number is 10, which of the following will be true?
The sporophyte's chromosome number per cell is 10 and the gametophyte's is 5
A scientist is working with a unique cell sample. He isolates two molecules that are always present when the cells divide. To determine the effects of the two molecules, he sets up the following experiment. In group #1, he spreads cell samples on a petri dish and adds molecule A. In group #2, he spreads cell samples on a petri dish and adds molecule B. In group #3, he spreads cell samples on a petri dish and adds molecules A and B. In group #4, he spreads cells samples on a petri dish with no added molecules. He uses a sample size of five. The results are shown in the table below.

What would have to change about treatment #1 in order to cultivate cellular growth?

experiment_table_5882b3353193d.jpg
Add molecule B.
Increases in the enzymatic activity of some protein kinases important for the regulation of the cell cycle are due to
activation of inactive kinases by binding of cyclins
Which of the following statements reflects an advantage that sexual reproduction likely provides over asexual reproduction?
Selected: d. Although energetically more costly than asexual reproduction, sexual reproduction leads to different combinations of alleles that could provide adaptability in a changing environment.
Nearly all life cycles have both haploid and diploid phases. Usually, the transition from haploid to diploid takes place __________.
. at fertilization, when gametes fuse
A cell's DNA was measured at 7 picograms. DNA level range from 5-10 picograms in the cell cycle. What stage of the cell cycle is the cell in?
S phase
The process depicted in the diagram below is best summarized by which of the following descriptions?
d. During meiosis, crossing over leads to re combinations of alleles between homologous chromosomes.
Skin cells are placed in a culture containing growth medium. After incubating at 37⁰C for 24 hours, the cells have divided to form a single layer that has spread to all borders of the culture. A scientist scrapes away a small circle of cells in the middle of the culture. If she incubates the culture again and returns in 24 hours, what will she find?
The cells will divide just enough to cover the circle.
In a human karyotype, chromosomes are arranged in 23 pairs. If we choose one of these pairs, such as pair 14, which of the following do the two chromosomes of the pair have in common?
c. Length, centromere position, staining pattern, and traits coded for by their genes.
In sexually reproducing species, the chromosome number remains stable over time because __________ and __________ always alternate
meiosis.....fertilization
Which of the following statements is correct about cell division and the cell cycle?
MPF triggers a cell's passage from G2 to metaphase
According to the diagram below, which of the life cycles is typical for plants and some algae?
III only
According to the diagram below, which of the life cycles is typical for animals?
I only
Bacteria like the E. coli cell reproduce through binary fission. Which of the following is NOT true concerning this process?
Offspring are genetically unique
The synaptonemal complex forms during
c. prophase I of meiosis
Vinblastine is a standard chemotheapeutic durg used to treat cancer. Because it interferes with the assembly of microtubules, its effeciveness must be related to
disruption of mitotic spindle formation.
The figure below is of a single pair of homologous chromosomes as they might appear during various stages of either mitosis or meiosis. Which diagram represents anaphase I of meiosis?
I
The drug Cytochalasin D inhibits actin formation in a cell while perserving the structure of the rest of the cytoskeleton. Which of the following processes of the cell cycle would be disrupted by exposer to Cytochalasin D?
formation of the cleavage furrow
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would mostly likely result in the
condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells.
Which of these statements is false?
d. At sexual maturity, ovaries and testes produce diploid gametes by meiosis.
You have isolated DNA from three different cell types of an organism, determined the relative DNA content for each type, and plotted the results on the graph shown below.
Which sample might represent an animal cell in the G2 phase of the cell cycle
II
Which of the following statements is correct about cell division and cell cycles
Normal cells growing in culture exhibit density-dependent inhibition
Sexual and asexual reproduction are alike in that __________.
they can both occur in multicellular organisms
Which of the following contributes to genetic variation in sexually reproducing species?
random fertilization, independent assortment, crossing over
If a horticulturist breeding gardenias succeeds in having a single plant with a particularly desirable set of traits, which of the following would be her most probable and efficient route to establishing a line of such plants?
Clone the plant asexually to produce an identical one.
DNA replication is controlled at the _____________ checkpoint.
G2
The drug Taxol, which comes from the Pacific yew tree, is a common chemotherapeutic treatment to stop the spread of cancer of the breast. The principal mechanism by which it works is the disruption of the microtuble assembly. As a result of its function, with which process in the cell would Taxol mostly interfere?
mitotic spindle formation

RNA retroviruses such as HIV discharge both strands of RNA and molecules of reverse transcriptase into cells they infect. What is the purpose of the reverse transcriptase?
The reverse transcriptase is required to translate viral mRNA into proteins

The figure above depicts the DNA protein complex that is assembled at the transcriptional start site of gene X when the expression of gene X is activated in liver cells. Previous studies have shown that gene X is never expressed in nerve cells. Based on the diagram, which of the following most likely contributes to the specific expression of pattern of gene X?
The activator is a sequence specific DNA binding protein that is present in some tissues but not in other tissues

Which of the following normally leads to the production of functional messenger RNA in eukaryotic cells?
The removal of portions of RNA known as intervening sequences (introns)

PCR allows target segments of DNA to be produced quickly because it enables lab technicians to do which of the following?
Amplify DNA samples

What does the operon model attempt to explain?
The coordinated control of gene expression in bacteria

Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950s most directly support which of the following claims about DNA
The basic molecular structure is a helix

Sickle cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit

Some strains of the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes secrete poisonous substances called exotoxins. The genes encoding the exotoxins are though to have originated in the bacteriophages, which are viruses that infect bacteria. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism by which the S. pyogenes acquired the ability to produce the extoxins?
Bacteriophage DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome

If you were to observe the activity of the methylated DNA, you would expect it to
Have turned off or slowed down the process of transcription

A eukaryotic gene typically has all of the following EXCEPT
An Operator

The table below describes the action of two genes involved in the regulation of nervous system development in the nematode C. elegans. Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
Gene A promotes neuron development, gene B promotes programmed cell death in neuronal precursors

A reasonable conclusion to draw from the results of the experiment is that
DNA is the genetic material

What was the purpose of treating the extract with protein-degrading enzymes in Procedure II?
To demonstrate that the transforming factor is not a protein

What was the purpose of treating the DNAse in Procedure III?
To serve as a negative control by demonstrating that transformation does not occur without DNA

Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme b-galactosidase. The gene encoding b-galactosidase, lac Z, is part of a coordinately regulated operon containing other genes required for lactose utilization. Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized?
Graph D

What would occur if the repressor of an inducible operon were mutated so it could not bind to the operator?
Continuous transcription of the operon's genes

The Trp operon is a coordinately regulated group of genes that are required for trytophan biosynthesis in E. Coli. Based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?
In the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
D

Which of the following best describes how sticklebacks in the same population with identical copies of the the Pixtl gene can still show phenotypic variation in the pelvic spine character?
Expression of the Pixtl gene is affected by mutations at other genetic loci

A mutation that affects Pixtl gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of the following genetic loci?
Promoter

In sticklebacks, which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?
The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pixtl gene is expressed in the develiping pelvis but not in the developing jaw.

Which of the following describes a possible selective mechanism to explain why freshwater sticklebacks typically have reduced pelvic spines?
Reduced pelvic spines increase the likelihood of escaping predators in freshwater environments.

Mutations in DNA are usually caused by chemical or radiation damage to DNA molecules, followed by imperfect repair of the damage. Immediately after this kind of imperfect repair, there may be a mismatched base pair in the DNA. The illustration below shows an example of a mismatch, with the relevant pair bases in bold.
B

Which of the processes can cause an increase in the rate of transcription?
Acetylation of histone proteins

What is the baSis for the difference in how the leading and lagging strands in DNA molecules are synthesized?
DNA polymerase can join new nucleotides only to the 3' end of a growing strand

The segment of DNA shown below has restriction sites I and II, which create restriction fragments a, b, and c. Which of the following gels produced by electrophoresis would represent the separation and identify of these fragments?
B

Based on the universal genetic code,which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon
ASp-Arg-Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His

A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.

In deer, fur length is controlled by a single gene with two alleles. When a deer homozygous for long fur is crossed with a deer homozygous for short hair, the offspring have medium length fur. If these offspring with medium hair mate, what percentage of their offspring will have long fur
25%

Which of the following would be discussing in an bioethics class concerning the test?
How important are the results of the test to the couple's health, since they already know they have HC?

DNA replication occurs
During the S phase of the cell cycle

X-linked conditions are more common in men than in women because
Men need to inherit only one copy of the recessive allele for the condition to be fully expressed

All of the following contribute to genetic recombination EXCEPT
Gene Linkage

The restoration of the diploid chromosome number after having in meiosis is due to
Fertilization

An allele on the X chromosome is responsible for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness in humans. The daughter of a woman who is color-blind has normal vision and marries a man who is color-blind. This couple has a son, what is the probability that the son will be color blind.
1/2

A new mutation that arose in one copy of gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation directly caused the tumor?
Protein X normally stimulates cell division and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X

Which of the following best describes the cells that result from the process of meiosis in mammals?
They are genetically different from the parent cell

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 1:1:1:1 phenotypic ratio
TtRrr x ttrr

All offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit both dominant traits
TTRr x TtRR

This cross is an example of a dihybrid cross in which both parents are heterozygous
TtRr x TtRr

Which of the following can be diagnosed by examining a karyotype of an individual's white blood cells?
Down Syndrome

The father must have which of the following blood types
Either AB or A

If the father has blood type AB, which of the following statements is correct about the mother?
She contributes an i allele which is recessive to the father's I^A allele.

Which of the following best describes the parents in a testcross
One individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype

In the pedigree above, circles represent females, squares represent males, and shaded figures represent individuals expressing a specific trait. The expression of this trait is most likely due to which of the following?
Autosomal recessive inheriance

If 2n=48 for a particular cell, then the chromosome number in each cell after meiosis would be
24

Hydrangea macrophylia...Which of the following will provide the most direct evidence that flower color in H. macro is due primarily to soil conditions
Growing cutting from the same H. macro plant under controlled conditions that vary only with regard to soil pH

A genetic counselor...Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting to his children?
Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?

Within a forest ecosystem, there is a large amount of diversity among members of warbler species. Of the following stages of meiosis illustrated for a typical cell, which contributes most to diversity among the warblers?
C

In Drosphilia melanogtaster...Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
The traits of body color show complete dominance over the traits of wing shape

Undersea landslides...Which of the following best predicts how the population will be affected by the landslide?
The reduced population will likely have allelic frequencies that are different from the initial population.

Scientists have found that existing populations of a certain species of amphibian are small in number, lacking genetic diversity, and separated from each other by wide areas of dry land. Which of the following human actions is most likely to improve the long-term survival of the amphibians?
Building ponds in the areas of dry land to promote interbreeding between the separated populations

A group of mice was released into a large field to which no other mice had access ...Which of the following best explains the change in frequency distribution of fur color phenotypes in the mouse population, as shown in the figures above?
The field was composed of light-colored soil and little vegetation, affording gray mice protection from predators

Lobe-finned fishes were present in the oceans of the world approx... Which of the following is the best plan for testing the hypothesis
Comparing the arrangements of bones in the fins of lobe-finned fishes and limbs of the earliest tetrapods

Ellis-van Creveld syndrome...Which of the following best describes the difference between the frequency of the allele that causes the syndrome in the general population and the frequency of the allele in the isolated population?
The frequency of the Ellis-van Creveld allele 0.0447 in the isolated population and 0.0026 in the general population, which suggests that genetic drift has occurred in the isolated population

Which of the following statements best expresses the concept of punctuated equilibrium?
Evolution occurs in rapid bursts of change alternating with long periods in which species remain relatively unchanged

In a small group of people... blue skin .... The unusually high frequency of "blue skin" in the area is an example of
Genetic Drift

All of the following conditions would result in a change in the frequency of a specific allele in a population EXCEPT
Random mating in a large population

Human intestines....The same evolutionary modification that causes increased susceptibility to torn mesenteries is responsible for
Back and knee problems

On a large volcanic island...Which of the following observations best supports the prediction that speciation will occur within the existing plant population?
Lava has separated the population into two areas: an upland forest and a lowland marsh.

The pesticide DDT was widely used in the 1940s as a method of insect control...Which of the following best explains the observations concerning DDT resistance in mosquitoes?
Natural selection favors DDT-resistant mosquitoes that are already present in a population when DDT exposure occurs

A species of snail lives....Which of the following best explains the observed distribution pattern of the snails?
Dark-colored snails absorb more solar energy and so survive more readily in the colder northern weather

Based on the model of speciation presented, which of the following describes the most likely consequence to the populations over time?
Hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to subsequent generations

Which of the following best describes the reason for excluding hybrid males when calculating the allele frequencies of two interbreeding populations at the intermediate stage of speciation?
Sterile individuals make no genetic contribution to the next generation

In a separate investigation....The experimental results are most consistent with which of the stages that are depicted in the model
Intermediate stage

Using the model of speciation and applying it to a different population, which of the following outcomes is most consistent for a different species in which the males are homogametic and the females are heterogametic?
Sterility would appear in females before appearing in males

Two populations of a species of squirrel are geographical isolated from each other....Which of the following is the best prediction of how the new disease will affect the two populations
The smaller population will be more affected than will the larger population, because the smaller population has less genetic variation than the larger population has

Over evolutionary time....How can natural selection account for these losses?
Under particular circumstances that persisted for long periods, each of these structures presented greater costs than benefits

In a particular bird species, individuals with average-sized wings survive severe storms more successfully than other birds in the same population with longer or shorter winds. This illustrates:
Stabilizing selection

The B blood type allele probably originated in Asia and subsequently spread to Europe and other regions of the world. This is an example of:
Gene flow

The table shows the changes in allele frequencies of a specific gene in 2 populations of randomly mating small mammals...Which of the following is the most reliable conclusion that can be drawn from analysis of the data above?
Genetic drift has occurred in population 1

Cladogram
Arg to leuc at position x on the cladogram

In his transformation experiments, what did Griffith observe?
mixing a heat-killed pathogenic strain of bacteria with a living nonpathogenic strain can convert some of the living cells into the pathogenic form

what is meant by the description "antiparallel" regarding the strands that make up DNA?
the 5' to 3' direction of one strand runs opposite to the 5' to 3' direction of the other strand

the processes illustrated in the models depicted above all result in which of the following?
an increase in genetic diversity

cytosine makes up 38% of the nucleotides in a sample of DNA from an organism. Approximately what percentage of the nucleotides in this sample will be thymine?
12%

the sequences for two short fragments of DNA are shown above. which of the following is one way in which these two segments would differ?
segment 1 would denature faster during PCR heating than segment 2 because A-T base pairs have two hydrogen bonds whereas C-G base pairs have three

which of the following unwinds and unzips the DNA strands during replication?
helicase

which enzyme catalyzes the elongation of a DNA strand in the 5' ------> 3' direction?
DNA polymerase III

which of the following helps to stabilize mRNA by inhibiting its degradation and protects mRNA as it leaves and travels outside of the nucleus>
5' G cap and poly A tail

the TATA sequence is found only several nucleotides away from the start site of transcription. This most probably relates to which of the following?
the physical spacing necessary for RNA polymerase and transcriptions factors to bind to the DNA

which of these mutations would be most likely to have a harmful effect on an organism?
a single nucleotide insertion downstream of and close to the start codon

sickle-cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position #6. all the other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin protein. based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?
a single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit

muscle cells differ from nerve cells mainly because they
express different genes

which of the following best describes how sticklebacks in the same population with identical copies of Pux 1 gene can still show phenotypic variation in the pelvic spine character?
expression of the pux 1 gene can be affected by mutations at another genetic locus

in stickle backs which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?
neither the jaw nor a pronounced pelvic spine develop normally because their is no Pux 1 gene expression in either developing tissue

the trp operon is coordinately regulated group of genes that are required for tryptophan biosynthesis in E. coli bacteria. based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the trp operon?
in the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon

plates that have only ampicillin-resistant bacteria growing include which of the following?
IV only

based on the experiment above, which of the following best explains why there is no growth on plate II?
the initial E. coli culture was not ampicillin-resistant

based on the experiment above, which of the following statements best explains why there are fewer colonies on plate IV than on plate III?
not all E coli cells are successfully transformed with the ampicillin resistance gene

why are viruses referred to as obligate parasites?
they cannot reproduce outside of a host cell

the cells lining the respiratory tract of pigs have receptors for both acian and human influenza viruses. based on the model above, which of the following best describes the origin of the new strain human influenza virus?
the new viral strain inherited a combination of genetic material from both avian influenza and human influenza virus

the pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mutochondrial DNA because
maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mothers offspring

in 1997 dolly the sheep was cloned. which of the following processes was used?
fusion of an adult cell's nucleus with a de-nucleated sheep egg, followed by incubation in a surrogate female

what is the hierarchy of biological organization starting with the smallest living things?
organelles-cells-tissue-organ systems and organs- organisms- populations- communities- ecosystems- biomes -biosphere

what are the hierarchical organization of life classification categories?
domain- kingdom- phylum- class- order- family- genus- species

what are the 4 properties of water that make it so beneficial towards life?
-cohesive behavior: water sticks to water
-ability to moderate temperatures
-expansion upon freezing
-versatility as a solvent: dissolves things

DNA replication occurs
A. during the S phase of the cycle.

An allele on the X chromosome is responsible
for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness
in humans. The daughter of a woman who is
color-blind has normal vision and marries a man
who is color-blind. This couple has a son, what is
the probability that the son will be color-blind?
C. 1/2

Which of the following depicts the most
probable pathway of processing and
packaging a secretory protein within a
eukaryotic cell?
B. Rough endoplasmic reticulum → Golgi body → secretory vesicles → cell membrane

Which of the following best describes the function of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic cellular respiration?
E. They accept electrons during oxidation-reduction reactions.

A group of people whose ancestors immigrated to North America 200 years ago have certain allele frequencies that differ significantly from those in surrounding populations in the United States. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for the difference in allele frequencies?
C. Reproductive isolation

There is strong evidence that two species of
cliff-dwelling birds have nested in the same
environment and fed in the same water for
thousands of years, with each having stable
population sizes. Based on this information,
which of the following statements is the best
conclusion?
D. The two birds have different ecological niches that allow coexistence.

When the dorsal lip of the blastopore is removed
from one developing embryo and successfully
implanted into a different location in a second
embryo of the same species at the same
developmental stage, which of the following
is the most likely result?
A. Two neural tubes form in the second embryo.

In the pedigree above, circles represent females, squares represent males, and shaded figures represent individuals expressing a specific trait. The expression of this trait is most likely due to which of the following?
[http://i.imgur.com/bqBh9ia.png]
D. Autosomal recessive inheritance

Which of the following normally leads to the
production of functional messenger RNA in
eukaryotic cells?
B. The removal of portions of RNA known as intervening sequences (introns)

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 phenotypic ratio.
D. TtRr x ttrr

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 3 : 3 : 1 : 1 phenotypic ratio.
E. TtRr x ttRr

All offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit both dominant traits.
C. TTRr x TtRR

This cross is an example of a dihybrid cross in which both parents are heterozygous.
B. TtRr x TtRr

Depicts the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction
from low substrate concentrations to saturating
substrate concentrations.
[http://i.imgur.com/VMUu8uP.png]
C. (Gradually curves upwards then plateaus)

Assimilation of nitrate by photosynthetic
eukaryotes.
[http://i.imgur.com/cfL551G.png]
D. NO3- > Green plants

Nitrogen fixation by prokaryotes.
[http://i.imgur.com/cfL551G.png]
A. N2 Nitrogen in atmosphere > Bacteria

Denitrification by anaerobic prokaryotes.
[http://i.imgur.com/cfL551G.png]
E. NO3- > Bacteria

Which of the following statements best explains
why oxygen is taken up more rapidly at 12° C than at 20° C?
[http://i.imgur.com/zn5Nz0J.png]
E. The loss of body heat causes muscles to relax and require more oxygen.

Which of the following hypotheses is best
supported by the results of this experiment?
[http://i.imgur.com/zn5Nz0J.png]
E. Rats lose more heat per gram of tissue than do mice.

Interpretation of the data supports which of the
following statements?
[http://i.imgur.com/JyV4F6b.png]
E. Mammals are more closely related to reptiles than they are to fish.

Which of the following phylogenetic trees can be
supported by the data?
[http://i.imgur.com/JyV4F6b.png]
[http://i.imgur.com/0UD4XHR.png]
D. I and II only

Observation of the direction of the nerve impulse
supports the conclusion that fiber X is
[http://i.imgur.com/8UIReMc.png]
A. an axon

Which of the following statements is true about
the neurotransmitter used to transmit the impulse at the synapse?
[http://i.imgur.com/8UIReMc.png]
C. It is released by fiber X when an impulse travels the length of fiber X.

The experimental design allows testing of which
of the following?
[http://i.imgur.com/O2I9dtK.png]
D. The effects of both temperature and oxygen
on germination

Germination would be expected to occur first in
which beaker?
[http://i.imgur.com/O2I9dtK.png]
A. 1

Comparing results from which of the following
pairs of beakers would help determine if enzymes are necessary for germination?
[http://i.imgur.com/O2I9dtK.png]
A. 1 & 2

Enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline
(basic) pH are represented by which of the
following graphs?
[http://i.imgur.com/fYP9jXD.png]
B. II only

Graphs representing enzymes sensitive to changes in pH include which of the following?
[http://i.imgur.com/fYP9jXD.png]
E. I, II, and II only

The most likely explanation for the results shown in Graph I is that
[http://i.imgur.com/fYP9jXD.png]
A. pH affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme

DNA replication occurs
during the S phase of the cell cycle

An allele on the X chromosome is responsible
for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness
in humans. The daughter of a woman who is
color-blind has normal vision and marries a man
who is color-blind. This couple has a son, what is
the probability that the son will be color-blind?
1/2

Which of the following depicts the most
probable pathway of processing and
packaging a secretory protein within a
eukaryotic cell?
Rough endoplasmic reticulum - Golgi body - Secretory vesicles - cell membrane

Which of the following best describes the function
of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic
cellular respiration?
They accept electrons during oxidationreduction
reactions.

A group of people whose ancestors immigrated to
North America 200 years ago have certain allele
frequencies that differ significantly from those in
surrounding populations in the United States.
Which of the following is the most likely
explanation for the difference in allele
frequencies?
Reproductive isolation

There is strong evidence that two species of
cliff-dwelling birds have nested in the same
environment and fed in the same water for
thousands of years, with each having stable
population sizes. Based on this information,
which of the following statements is the best
conclusion?
The two birds have different ecological
niches that allow coexistence

When the dorsal lip of the blastopore is removed
from one developing embryo and successfully
implanted into a different location in a second
embryo of the same species at the same
developmental stage, which of the following
is the most likely result?
Two neural tubes form in the second embryo

In the pedigree above, circles represent females, squares represent males, and shaded figures represent
individuals expressing a specific trait. The expression of this trait is most likely due to which of the following?
Autosomal recessive inheritance

Which of the following normally leads to the
production of functional messenger RNA in
eukaryotic cells
The removal of portions of RNA known as
intervening sequences (introns)

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a
1 : 1 : 1 : 1 phenotypic ratio
TtRr x ttrr

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a
3 : 3 : 1 : 1 phenotypic ratio.
TtRr x ttRr

All offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit
both dominant traits
TTRr x TtRR

This cross is an example of a dihybrid cross in
which both parents are heterozygous
TtRr x TtRr

Depicts the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction
from low substrate concentrations to saturating
substrate concentrations
exponential curve goes up

The contents of which dialysis tube are initially
isotonic to the distilled water in the beaker?
5

A net movement of water into the beaker occurs
in which of the following dialysis tubes
6

To model a plant cell, a permeable, nonflexible
case is placed around each piece of dialysis
tubing. The greatest pressure potential will
develop within dialysis tube number
4

The mRNA transcribed from the DNA would read
5' AUC AAG UUU GGC GCA UUG UAA 3'

Which of the following modifications of the DNA
would produce the greatest change in the primary
structure of the polypeptide chain
Deleting the first T in the second triplet

In which of the following would there NOT be a
change in the amino acid sequence of the peptide
coded for by this DNA
Changing 3' AAA 5' to read 3' AAG 5'

Which of the following statements best explains
why oxygen is taken up more rapidly at 12°C than
at 20°C?
At 12°C a higher rate of oxygen consumption
is required to maintain a high body
temperature.

Which of the following hypotheses is best
supported by the results of this experiment
Metabolic rate per gram of tissue is higher
in smaller mammals

Interpretation of the data supports which of the
following statements
Mammals are more closely related to reptiles
than they are to fish

Which of the following phylogenetic trees can be
supported by the data?
I and II only

Observation of the direction of the nerve impulse
supports the conclusion that fiber X is
an axon

Which of the following statements is true about
the neurotransmitter used to transmit the impulse
at the synapse
It is released by fiber X when an impulse
travels the length of fiber X

The experimental design allows testing of which
of the following?
The effects of both temperature and oxygen
on germination

Germination would be expected to occur first in
which beaker?
1

Comparing results from which of the following
pairs of beakers would help determine if enzymes
are necessary for germination
1 and 2

Enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline
(basic) pH are represented by which of the
following graphs
II only

Graphs representing enzymes sensitive to changes
in pH include which of the following
I, II, and III only

The most likely explanation for the results shown
in Graph I is that
pH affects the shape of the active site of the
enzyme

helicase
enzymes that untwist the double helix at the replication forks, separating the two parent strands

c (translation)
involved the interaction of aminoacyl-tRNA (charged tRNA) and the A site of a ribosome

c (translation)
the synthesis of polypeptides from the genetic information coded in mRNA

a (histone acetylation)
the attachment of groups to particular amino acids of specific proteins; this is thought to be an important control mechanism for gene expression because it loosens chromatin allowing transcription

e (transcription)
the synthesis of RNA from a DNA template

e (to add nucleotides to the 3' end of a growing DNA strand)
what is the function of DNA polymerase

d (exons)
After eukaryotic transcription takes place, mRNA undergoes several modifications before leaving the nucleus to take part in translation. One of these is the cutting out of nonessential sections of mRNA and the subsequent splicing together of mRNA necessary for the final functional molecule. Which of the following mRNA sections are spliced together into the finished mRNA molecule

b (a single nucleotide insertion downstream of, and close to, the start of the coding sequence)
Which of the following mutations would be most likely to have a harmful effect on an organism

c (5' AUC AAG UUU GGC GCA UUG UAA 3')
TRIPLET NUMBER: The mRNA transcribed from the DNA would read

d (deleting the first T in the second triplet)
Which of the following modification of the DNA would produce the greatest change in the primary structure of the polypeptide chain

d (changing 3' AAA 5' to read 3' AAG 5')
in which of the following owuld ther not be a change in the amino acid sequence of the peptide coded for by this DNA

b (introns are cut out before mRNA leaves the nucleus)
which of the following is not true of RNA processing

e (it extends from one end of a tRN molecule)
which of the following is false regarding a codon

d (unwinding the double helix)
what is the function of topoisomerase

a (complementary to the corresponding mRNA codon)
the anticodon of a particular tRNA molecule is

b (DNA)
which component is not directly involved in translation

Which of the following messenger RNA sequences could code for both of the two amino acid sequences above, simply by a shift in the reading frame?
. . . AGCAGCAGCAGC . . .

Which of the following DNA strands will code for the amino acid sequence shown above?
. . . CCTTCGCCT . . .

In the diagrams below, the horizontal line represents the lac operon and the bent arrow represents the transcription start site of the lac operon. Which of the following diagrams best represents the scenario in which lactose is available to the cell and glucose is absent?
Lactose binded to repressor protein; repressor protein is not bound to the operon; RNA polymerase is synthesizing mRNA

The p53 protein regulates a cellular response to DNA damage. Based on the diagram above, which of the following best describes the role of p53 in the response to DNA damage?
Phosphorylated p53 stimulates transcription of p21, and the the resulting p21 protein suppressed cell division until DNA damage is repaired.

Analysis of DNA sequences from two individuals of the same species results in a greater estimate of genetic variability than does analysis of amino acid sequences from the same individuals because
different DNA sequences can code for the same amino acid

Erwin Chargaff investigated the nucleotide composition of DNA. He analyzed DNA from various organisms and measured the relative amounts of adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T) present in the DNA of each organism. Table 1 contains a selected data set of his results. Which of the following statements best explains the data set?
Since the %A and the %T are approximately the same in each sample, adenine and thymine molecules must pair up in a double-stranded. DNA molecule. Correct. The percentages of adenine and thymine are approximately the same because adenine aligns with thymine in double-stranded DNA and they are therefore present in each organism in the same amounts.

A model that represents a process occurring in a cell of a particular organism is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following correctly explains the process shown in Figure 1 ?
Initiation of transcription is occurring because a strand of RNA is being produced from a DNA template strand. Correct. Transcription is occurring. Since uracil (U) is present in the new strand being formed, RNA is being formed from a DNA template.

Cells that contain only circular chromosomes are most probably which of the following?
Bacterial cells

A model of a process involving nucleic acids is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following best explains what process is represented in Figure 1 ?
New DNA strands are being synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction from their DNA templates. Correct. New DNA strands are synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction from the DNA template, and this is depicted in the diagram. The leading strand is being synthesized on the bottom, while the lagging strand is being synthesized in fragments on top.

Figure 1 shows some relevant details of a model of how a deoxynucleotide, in this case dTMP, is added to a growing strand of DNA. The features of this model provide evidence for which explanation of why all growing strands are synthesized in a 5′ to 3′ direction?
The phosphate group, attached to the 5′ carbon of the dTMP, forms a covalent bond with the oxygen atom attached to the 3′ carbon of the growing strand. Correct. Synthesizing a growing strand requires the interaction of the phosphate groups found at the 5′5′ location on the new deoxynucleotide with the OH group attached to the 3′3′ carbon of the existing end of the growing strand. These specific interactions and the release of diphosphate explain the directionality requirement for a growing strand of DNA.

Enzyme used during replication to attach Okazaki fragments to each other
DNA ligase.

Enzyme used in the synthesis of mRNA
RNA polymerase

Enzyme used to position nucleotides during DNA replication
DNA polymerase

Genetic engineering techniques can be used when analyzing and manipulating DNA and RNA. Scientists used gel electrophoresis to study transcription of gene L and discovered that mRNA strands of three different lengths are consistently produced.
Pre-mRNA of gene L is subject to alternative splicing, so three mRNA sequences are possible. Correct. Excision of different introns and splicing and retention of different exons can generate different versions of the resulting mRNA, which may have different lengths.

A scientist is using an ampicillin-sensitive strain of bacteria that cannot use lactose because it has a nonfunctional gene in the lac operon. She has two plasmids. One contains a functional copy of the affected gene of the lac operon, and the other contains the gene for ampicillin resistance. Using restrictions enzymes and DNA ligase, she forms a recombinant plasmid containing both genes. She then adds a high concentration of the plasmid to a tube of the bacteria in a medium for bacterial growth that contains glucose as the only energy source. This tube (+) and a control tube (-) with similar bacteria but no plasmid are both incubated under the appropriate conditions for growth and plasmid uptake. The scientist then spreads a sample of each bacterial culture (+ and -) on each of the three types of plates indicated below. If the scientist had forgotten to use DNA ligase during the preparation of the recombinant plasmid, bacterial growth would most likely have occurred on which of the following?
1 and 4 only

Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme β-galactosidase. The gene encoding β-galactosidase, lacZ, is part of a coordinately regulated operon containing other genes required for lactose utilization.
Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized? (The legend below defines the shapes of the molecules illustrated in the options.)
No RNA polymerase or lactose present. The repressor protein is bound to the operator portion of the operon. This option is correct because the lac operon is an inducible operon, which means that the regulatory system is turned off until lactose or its analog turns it on. The mechanism for preventing its transcription is the binding of a repressor protein to the operator region.

Maximal transcription of the lac operon requires
the presence of cyclic AMP and lactose

Which of the following correctly explains where DNA replication will begin on the strand oriented 5'→3', reading from left to right?
DNA replication will be initiated immediately to the left of the RNA, since DNA polymerase requires an RNA primer. Correct. The RNA primer marks the beginning of DNA synthesis in the 5'5′ to 3'3′ direction. There is only one RNA primer present on the top strand in the diagram so DNA replication will begin there.

Mutations in DNA are usually caused by chemical or radiation damage to DNA molecules, followed by imperfect repair of the damage. Immediately after this kind of imperfect repair, there may be a mismatched base pair in the DNA. The illustration below shows an example of a mismatch, with the relevant pair bases in bold. Which of the following best represents the DNA of the two daughter cells produced when a bacterial cell with this particular mismatch replicates its DNA and divides?
Mutant- A and T; Normal- G and C

Figure 1 represents a metabolic process involving the regulation of lactose metabolism by E. coli bacteria. Lactose is utilized for energy by E. coli when glucose is not present. Allolactose is an isomer of lactose that is in the environment of these bacteria when lactose is present. The CAP site prevents the binding of RNA polymerase when glucose is present in the environment. The lacZ, lacY, and lacA genes code for proteins needed for lactose metabolism. Which is a scientific claim that is consistent with the information provided and Figure 1 ?
When bound to the operator, the repressor protein prevents lactose metabolism in E. coli. Correct. When the repressor protein is bound to the operator, the lac operon is turned off and the genes for lactose metabolism cannot be transcribed.

Process in which a protein is assembled at a ribosome
Translation

Process in which RNA is produced by using a DNA template
Transcription

Figure 1 represents part of a process that occurs in eukaryotic cells. There are untranslated regions (UTR) in this sequence. Which of the following best explains the process represented by Figure 1 ?
The enzyme-regulated processing of pre‑mRNA into mature mRNA. Correct. The removal of introns and the addition of a 3′ poly‑AA tail and a 5′GTP cap are associated with mRNA processing in eukaryotic cells, and the diagram reflects these changes.

Which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?
Noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule.

Figure 1 represents part of a process essential to gene expression. Which of the following best explains what strand X represents?
The antisense strand, because it is serving as a template. Correct. Strand X is serving as the template strand for the synthesis of a complementary strand of RNA. The template strand is also called the antisense strand.

Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon?
Met−Val−Thr−Lys−Phe−Gly−His

The following the DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading frame of β-hemoglobin gene. Given the codon chart listed below, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
The reading frame of the sequence would shift, causing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point.

The mRNA transcribed from the DNA would read
5' AUC AAG UUU GGC GCA UUG UAA 3'

Which of the following modifications of the DNA would produce the greatest change in the primary structure of the polypeptide chain?
Deleting the first T in the second triplet

The figure above depicts the DNA-protein complex that is assembled at the transcriptional start site of gene X when the expression of gene X is activated in liver cells. Previous studies have shown that gene X is never expressed in nerve cells. Based on the diagram, which of the following most likely contributes to the specific expression pattern of gene X ?
The activator is a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that is present in some tissues but not in other tissues.

Nuclear pores regulate the passage of substances into and out of the nucleus. Antibodies such as mAb414 have been used to inhibit the movement of substances through the nuclear pores of rat liver cells. Scientists cultured rat liver cells (eukaryotic) and bacteria cells (prokaryotic) in separate dishes with radioactively labeled amino acids. A specific gene in both cell types was engineered to synthesize identical polypeptide chains, and translation of this gene was measured. The procedure was repeated with mAb414 (the inhibitor) added to each of the two cell cultures, and translation was monitored again.
Which of the following sets of graphs best summarizes the results of the experiments?
Prokaryotic- goes up and constant; eukaryotic- stay the same/ flat (horizontal line). Correct. In eukaryotes, transcription and translation occur at different areas in the cell, whereas in prokaryotes, they occur simultaneously. In the experimental dish with the eukaryotes, the drug inhibited the translocation of mRNA to the cytoplasm, thereby preventing the translation, so no polypeptide chain was formed. However, in the prokaryotes, with no nucleus and both processes occurring simultaneously, translation occurred and the polypeptide chain was formed.

tRNA molecules deliver amino acids to ribosomes where the amino acid next
is covalently bonded to a growing polypeptide

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
Discontinuous replication on top strand (moving away from the fork) and continuous replication on bottom strand (moving towards the fork). This option is correct. It demonstrates an understanding of the structure of DNA and the process of replication. The two strands of the DNA molecule run antiparallel to each other; the 5' end of one strand pairs with the 3' end of the other strand. Replication is semi-conservative, with each strand serving as the template for the creation of new complementary strands. Helicase unzips the DNA molecules between the hydrogen bonds connecting the two strands. DNA polymerase "reads" each template strand in the 3'-to-5' direction and assembles the growing DNA chain in a 5'-to-3' direction. The "leading" strand is produced continuously, but on the "lagging" strand, Okazaki fragments are produced and are connected by ligase to produce the daughter molecule.

Which of the following is most likely to create genetic variation in a population?
DNA polymerase errors during replication

The diagram above represents a segment of the E. coli chromosome that contains the lacI gene and part of the lac operon, a coordinately regulated set of genes that are required for the metabolism of lactose. The presence of lactose, which causes the repressor to be released from the operator, results in increased transcription of the lac operon. Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.

Which of the following normally leads to the production of functional messenger RNA in eukaryotic cells?
The removal of portions of RNA known as intervening sequences (introns)
1) At the end of glycolysis, the original carbons of the glucose molecule form
C) two molecules of pyruvate.

2) The anaerobic breakdown of glucose is called
E) fermentation.

3) If glucose is metabolized under completely anaerobic conditions, pyruvate
E) is converted by fermentation to lactate or CO2 + ethanol.

4) All of the following are true statements about ATP EXCEPT that it is
A) synthesized only within mitochondria.

5) Which of the following statements is TRUE of glycolysis?
E) It produces a net gain of ATP.

6) The main function of cellular respiration is to produce
D) ATP.

7) During aerobic respiration in cells, about ________ of the chemical energy in a metabolized glucose
molecule is used for ATP production and the rest is released as heat.
A) 40% B)

8) If no oxygen is available to a cell, then the net ATP production resulting from the metabolism of a
single glucose molecule is
A) 2 ATP molecules.

9) Which event occurs in the fluid portion of the cytoplasm of a cell undergoing glucose metabolism?
B) Glycolysis

10) Where does the production of pyruvate occur during glycolysis?
D) Cytoplasmic fluid

11) During glycolysis, what is the net gain of ATP molecules produced from one glucose molecule?
D) 2

12) What molecule is common to both C3 photosynthesis and the process of glycolysis?
C) G3P

13) Which kind of metabolic poison would interfere with the glycolysis stage of cellular respiration?
E) An agent that closely mimics the structure of glucose but is not capable of being metabolized
and broken down

14) The end product of glycolysis is
B) two pyruvate molecules.

15) During glycolysis in the energy-investing stage, two ATP molecules are "spent" to convert glucose
to the highly reactive molecule
A) fructose bisphosphate.

16) In the glucose activation stage of glycolysis, glucose receives a phosphate group from ATP. This
reaction is
A) endergonic.

17) For bacteria to continue growing rapidly when they shift from an aerobic environment to an
anaerobic environment, they must
A) increase the rate of glycolysis.

18) During the glucose activation stage of glycolysis
D) two ATP molecules are used to make one fructose bisphosphate molecule.

19) The overall products of glycolysis are
D) ATP, NADH, and pyruvate.

20) During cellular respiration, the pyruvate produced in glycolysis is
D) the source of electrons for NADH and FADH2.

21) During which step of aerobic respiration is oxygen used?
D) Electron transport chain (ETC)

22) We breathe more heavily during exercise because our cells
B) are producing more CO2 and need to get rid of it.

23) Some of the CO2 that is exhaled during breathing is created during
C) the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl CoA.

24) The metabolic breakdown of one molecule of glucose generates the greatest amount of ATP energy
during
A) ETC.

25) How many CO2 molecules are generated from each pyruvate molecule that enters the
mitochondrial matrix?
C) Three

26) To be able to continue, each turn of the Krebs cycle must regenerate which of the following as a
final product?
D) Oxaloacetate

27) Which of the following is an example of an electron-carrier molecule?
D) NADH

28) In aerobic cellular respiration, the ETC receives electrons directly from
A) FADH2 only.
B) ATP only.

D) NADH only.
E) NADH and ATP.
C) NADH and FADH2.

29) In the mitochondrial matrix reactions, the original carbons in pyruvate
C) end up in molecules of CO2.

30) Chemiosmosis in mitochondria directly results in the synthesis of
A) ATP.

31) What is the final electron acceptor in cellular respiration?
A) Oxygen

32) During the final events of cellular respiration, oxygen combines with ________ to form ________.
A) energy-depleted electrons and carbon
D) energy-depleted electrons and hydrogen ions; water

33) From the beginning of glycolysis to the end of the Krebs cycle (excluding the ETC), what has the
cell gained from the breakdown of each molecule of glucose?
A) 4 molecules of ATP, 10 of NADH, and 2 of FADH2

34) Oxygen is necessary for cellular respiration because oxygen
C) combines with electrons and hydrogen ions to form water.

35) The step in aerobic respiration that produces the most ATP per molecule of glucose is
A) the ETC.

36) Which of the following parts of the mitochondria is (are) directly involved in the synthesis of ATP
during chemiosmosis?
E) Matrix and inner membrane

37) If ATP is made in the mitochondria, how does it provide energy for reactions in the cytoplasm of
the cell?
E) ATP diffuses into the cytoplasm through large pores in the outer membrane of the
mitochondria out.

38) Which of the following most closely matches the correct order of the main events of aerobic
cellular respiration?
E) Glycolysis, Krebs cycle, ETC, major ATP production

39) The products of the Krebs cycle include
A) ATP, carbon dioxide, and energy carriers.

40) The part of a mitochondrion that is analogous to the stroma of a chloroplast is the
A) matrix.

41) The inner membrane of the mitochondria can be compared functionally to the thylakoid
membranes of the chloroplast because both contain a system for
C) electron transport.

42) Which step produces the most ATP?
C) The ETC

43) Which of the following processes occurs in the cytoplasm?
A) Glycolysis

44) Which of the following processes occurs across the mitochondrial membrane?
C) The ETC

45) Which of the following processes involves hydrogen ions moving through ATP synthase channels,
generating ATP molecules?
C) The ETC

46) The term chemiosmosis is associated with which process?
B) The ETC

47) During which of the following processes is CO2 produced?
C) The Krebs cycle

48) Which of the following processes involves citric acid?
A) The ETC
B) The Krebs cycle

49) When oxygen is present
B) most animal cells utilize aerobic cellular respiration.

50) Suppose an organism can alternate between aerobic and anaerobic respiration. If it had to use
anaerobic respiration exclusively, how many glucose molecules must it break down to generate the
same ATP as it would in aerobic respiration?
D) 19

51) As a bicyclist pedals up a hill to the finish line of a race and "feels the burn" in his leg muscles,
those muscle cells are most likely utilizing
D) some lactate fermentation and lactic starting to build up in his muscle tissue causing a cramp.

52) Which of the following is common to both fermentation and cellular respiration?
A) Glycolysis

53) During which of the following processes is ATP NOT produced?
A) Fermentation by itself

54) Which of the following processes requires oxygen?
B) The ETC

55) Within a cell undergoing anaerobic metabolism of glucose, fermentation occurs in the

B) phospholipid bilayer of the cell membrane.
A) fluid portion of the cytoplasm.

56) During the fermentation of one molecule of glucose, the net production of ATP is
E) two molecules

57) After fermentation in human cells, lactate is converted to pyruvate in the
E) muscles.

58) What is the significance of the conversion of pyruvate to lactate during fermentation?
B) NAD+ is regenerated for use in glycolysis.

59) In the absence of oxygen, suppose a single yeast cell undergoes fermentation and uses 100
molecules of glucose. How many molecules of ATP will be generated?
A) 100 C) 36 D) 400 E) 300
B) 200

60) In vertebrate animal cells, where does the synthesis of lactate occur?
B) Fluid portion of the cytoplasm

61) How does one account for the bubbles in a glass of beer or champagne?
C) Bubbles of CO2 were produced by yeast during anaerobic metabolism and were trapped in
the bottle.

62) How do fatigued human muscle cells repay an "oxygen debt"?
B) The cells convert lactate back to pyruvate.

63) In human muscle cells, fermentation (by itself) produces
D) lactate.

64) End products of the different fermentation processes include all of the following EXCEPT
A) water.

65) Human muscle cells can perform
C) lactic acid fermentation and aerobic cellular respiration.

66) At the end of aerobic cellular respiration, how many total carbon dioxide molecules are produced
for each glucose metabolized?
A) 6

67) Some plans for weight loss include eating a low-carbohydrate diet. In the absence of a lot of
glucose in the diet, what other food molecules can be used to extract energy for cellular
respiration?
C) Protein and fats

68) The reason bread dough "rises" is due to the production of
D) carbon dioxide gas.

69) Bacteria in our mouths feed off the sugars in foods that we eat. As these bacteria ferment the
sugars, they generate a product that can cause dental cavities. What is this product?
C) Lactic acid

70) Which of the following metabolic processes directly utilizes oxygen?
D) ETC

71) Cyanide poisoning occurs because cyanide inhibits an enzyme in the electron transport pathway.
Which of the following is the reason why cyanide poisoning becomes deadly?
B) ATP is no longer produced by chemiosmosis.

TRUE/FALSE. Write 'T' if the statement is true and 'F' if the statement is false.
...

72) During chemiosmosis, a hydrogen ion gradient is linked to the production of ATP.
TRUE

73) Glycolysis and the Krebs cycle reactions both occur in the mitochondria.
FALSE

74) Carbon dioxide is considered a waste product of cellular respiration.
TRUE

75) The process of fermentation is energetically more efficient than that of cellular respiration.
FALSE

MULTIPLE CHOICE. Choose the one alternative that best completes the statement or answers the question.
...

76) Some people trying to lose weight have gone on the Atkins diet, in which they eat mostly
high-protein, low-carbohydrate foods such as meat, cheese, and eggs. The amino acids in these
protein-rich diets, such as alanine, glycine, and serine, can be converted to pyruvate by
deamination (removal of the amino group).
Based on this scenario as well as your knowledge of cellular respiration, how many ATP, NADH,
and FADH2 molecules will be generated from one molecule of alanine during the mitochondrial
matrix reactions? Hint: Only consider the reactions from the point at which the alanine carbons
enter cellular respiration.
E) 1 FADH2, 4 NADH, and 1 ATP

The nucleolus functions in the production of...
ribosomes

Which is a characteristic of mitochondria and chloroplasts that supports the endosymbiotic theory?
Both contain DNA molecules

All of the following cell components are found in prokaryotic cells EXCEPT...
nuclear envelope

The organelle that is the major producer of ATP and is found in both heterotrophs and autotrophs is the...
mitochondrion

If plant cells are immersed in distilled water, the resulting movement of water into the cells is called...
osmosis

Which of the following is the primary role of the lysosome?
intracellular digestion

Cytoplasmic channels between plant cells which are most similar to gap junctions between animal cells are called...
plasmodesmata

DIALYSIS TUBING BAG:
From the initial condition and results described which of the following is a logical conclusion?
The pores of the bag are larger than the glucose molecules but are smaller than the starch molecules

DIALYSIS TUBING BAG:
Which of the following best describes the conditions expected after 24 hours?
The bag will contain more water than it did in the original condition

DIALYSIS TUBING BAG:
If, instead of the bag, a potato slice were placed in the beaker of distilled water, which of the following would be true of the potato slice?
It would gain mass

'A' represents the dominant allele and 'a' represents the recessive allele of a pair. If, in 1000 offspring, 500 are 'aa' and 500 are some other genotype, which of the following are most probably the genotypes of their parents?
'Aa' and 'aa'

A form of vitamin D-resistant rickets, know as hypophosphatemia, is inherited as an X-linked DOMINANT trait. If a male with hypophosphatemia marries a normal female, which of the following predictions concerning their potential progeny would be true?
All of their daughters would inherit the disease

Which of the following best describes the parents in a testcross?
One individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype

Which of the following is the most likely explanation for a high rate of crossing over between 2 genes?
The 2 genes are far apart on the same chromosome

In peas the trait for tall plants is dominant (T) and the trait for recessive plants is recessive (t). The trait for yellow seed color is dominant (Y) and the trait for green seed color is recessive (y). A cross between 2 plants results in 296 tall yellow plants and 104 tall green plants. Which of the following are most likely to be the genotypes of the parents?
TtYy x TTYy

In humans, red-green color blindness is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a man and a woman produce a color blind son, which of the following MUST be true?
The mother carries the allele for color blindness

PEDIGREE (heredity q. 7)
In the pedigree below, squares represent males and circles represent females. Individuals who express a particular trait are represented by shaded figures. Which of the following patterns of inheritance best explains the transmission of the trait?
Autosomal dominant

MOTHER: Type B blood
CHILD: Type A blood
The father must have which of the following blood types?
AB or A

MOTHER: Type B blood
CHILD: Type A blood
If the father has blood type AB, which of the following statements is correct about the mother?
She contributes an i allele, which is recessive to the father's IA allele

A male fruit fly with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings. These F1 flies were test crossed with purple eyed, vestigial winged flied. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.
125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

If in the F1 and F2 generations the same characteristics appeared in both males and females, it would be safe to assume that these traits are...
autosomal characteristics

A male fruit fly with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings. These F1 flies were test crossed with purple eyed, vestigial winged flied. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.
125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

In the F2 generation, the results are best explained by the fact that ...
these genes for eye color and wing shape are found on the same chromosome

A male fruit fly with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings. These F1 flies were test crossed with purple eyed, vestigial winged flied. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.
125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

If a single locus controls wing shape, then the alleles for this gene act as...
dominant-recessive alleles

DNA replication can be described as...
semiconservative

What would be the sequence of bases of an mRNA molecule that was transcribes from the sequence of DNA bases shown below?

GTAGTAGGT
CAUCAUCCA

What is the process in which a protein is assembles at a ribosome?
translation

What is the process in which naked DNA is taken up by a bacterial or yeast cell?
transformation

What is the process in which RNA is produced by using a DNA template?
transcription

What is the process that results in the production of cDNA from an RNA molecule?
reverse transcription

What is the process in which DNA is produced by using a DNA template?
replication

GEL ELECTROPHORESIS:
The electrophoretic separation of the pieces of DNA in each of the four samples was achieved because of differential migration of the DNA fragments in an electric field. This differential migration was cause by the...
size of each fragment

The DNA was labeled with 32P (radioactive phosphorus) in order to...
visualize the fragments

Which of the following is an additional use of the gel electrophoresis technique?
To separate the proteins in a mixture

BACTERIAL GROWTH:
If no new mutations occur, it would be most reasonable to expect bacterial growth on with of the following plates?
1, 2, 3, and 4

BACTERIAL GROWTH:
The scientist used restriction enzymes for what purpose in the experiment?
To make cuts in the plasmid DNA

BACTERIAL GROWTH:
If the scientist had forgotten to use DNA ligase during the preparation of the recombinant plasmid, bacterial growth would most likely have occured on which of the following?
1 and 4

BACTERIAL GROWTH:
If the scientist used the cultures to perform another experiment as shown above, using medium that contained lactose as the only energy source, growth would most likely occur on which of the following plates?
7 and 8

All of the following are density dependent factors that limit animal populations EXCEPT
weather

During the carbon cycle, which of the following carbon compounds would be utilized as an energy source for heterotrophs?
organic molecules

All of the following statements concerning characteristics of predator-prey relationships are correct EXCEPT:
The population of predators most often eliminates the population of prey

Which of the following is true about secondary consumers in an ecosystem?
They are fewer in number than are primary consumers

In the nitrogen cycle, the transformation of gaseous nitrogen into nitrogen-containing compounds is performed primarily by...
bacteria

Permafrost; temperatures range from approx. -50 degrees C to +25 degrees C; a growing season of 60 days or less
arctic tundra

Over 10 inches of precipitation per year; long, cold winters and short summers; dominant vegetation is gymnosperm
taiga

Lack if water common in summer; seasonal temperature variations; maintained by periodic fires
temperate grassland

Less than 10 inches of precipitation per year; extremes of hot and cold throughout the year; large daily temp. variations
desert

This biome has the greatest diversity of species
tropical rain forest

Which point on the curve in the diagram above represents the carrying capacity of the environment for the population shown?
Point E

Which of the following organisms is most likely to be located at the apex of the pyramid of biomass?
hawk

All of the following statements about the diagram are correct EXCEPT...
Only two trophic levels are depicted

The organic and inorganic materials in all the organisms in the diagram will eventually return to the environment by the action of
decomposers

Which of the following best explains why there are seldom more than 5 trophic levels in a food chain?
Energy is lost from each trophic level

COUNTRY 1/COUNTRY 2 GRAPH:
In Country 1, apprix. what percentage of the individuals were younger than 15 years of age?
42%

COUNTRY 1/COUNTRY 2 GRAPH:
Which of the following best approximates the ratio of males to females among individuals below 15 years of age?
Country 1 1:1
Country 2 1:1

COUNTRY 1/COUNTRY 2 GRAPH:
If, in Country 1, infant mortality declined and the birth rate remained the same, then initially the population would be expected to...
be even more concentrated in the young age classes

COUNTRY 1/COUNTRY 2 GRAPH:
Over the next 10-15 years, the stabilization of Country 1's population at its current size would require that....
each couple produce fewer children than the number required to replace themselves

WILD SHEEP-TASMANIA:
The type of population growth represented by that portion of the graph line enclosed in the bracket is most accurately termed
exponential

WILD SHEEP-TASMANIA:
The graph indicated that the sheep population most likely is
growing in excess of its of its carrying capacity, since fluctuations in population size occurred after 1850

Which of the following is most associated with the elaborate courtship rituals conducted by many birds?
species recognition

The replacement of glutamic acid by valine at a specific position in the beta chains of hemoglobin leads to sickle cell anemia. This change represents which of the following mutational events?
DNA base-pair substitution

The differences in cricket calls among sympatric species of crickets are examples of
behavioral isolation

Which of the following statements best expresses the concept of punctuated equilibrium?
Evolutionary changed consist of rapid bursts of speciation alternating with long periods in which species remain essentially unmodified

Which of the following principles is NOT part of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection?
Mutations are the ultimate source of genetic variation

In a small group of people living in a remote area, there is a hugh incidence of 'blue skin', a condition that results from a variation in the structure of hemoglobin. All of the 'blue skinned' residents can trace their ancestry to one couple who were among the original settlers of this region. The unusually high frequency of 'blue skin' in this area is an example of...
genetic drift
(founder effect)

In certain Native American groups, albinism due to a homozygous recessive condition in the biochemical pathway for melanin is sometimes seen. If the frequency of the allele for this condition if 0.06, which of the following is closest to the frequency of the dominant allele in this population?
0.94

In a certain flock of sheep, 4% of the population has black wool and 96% has white wool.
If black wool is a recessive trait, what percentage of the population is heterozygous for this trait?
32%

In a certain flock of sheep, 4% pf the population has black wool and 96% has white wool.
What percentage of the population is homozygous for white wool?
64%

The carbon that makes up organic molecules in plants is derived directly from
carbon fixed in photosynthesis

If plants are grown for several days in an atmosphere containing 14 CO2 in place of 12 CO2 , one would expect to find
a large increase in 14C in the starch in the roots

The O2 released during photosynthesis comes from
H2O

The end products of the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis are
ATP, NADPH and O2

Which of the following is an important difference between light dependent and light independent reactions of photosynthesis?
The light dependent reactions produce ATP and NADPH; the light independent reactions use energy stored in ATP and NADPH

Which of the following enzymes is responsible for CO2 fixation in C3 plants?
RuBP carboxylase

During respiration, most ATP is formed as a direct result of the net movement of...
protons down a concentration gradient

Which of the following processes is carried out more efficiently by a C4 plant than by a C3 plant?
fixation of CO2

On a sunny day, the closing of stomata in plant leaved results in
a decrease in CO2 intake

Oxygen consumption can be used as a measure of metabolic rate because oxygen is...
necessary for ATP synthesis by oxidative phosphorylation

A student placed 20 tobacco seeds of the same species on moist paper towels in each of 2 petri dishes. Dish A was wrapped completely in an opaque cover to exclude all light. Dish B was not wrapped. The dishes were placed equidistant from a light source set to a cycle of 14 hours of light and 10 hours of dark. All other conditions were the same for both dishes. The dishes were examined after 7 days, and the opaque cover was permanently removed from dish A. Both dishes were returned to the light and examined again at 14 days. According to the results of this experiment, germination of tobacco seeds during the first week is
a. increased by exposure to light
b. unaffected by light intensity
c. prevented by paper towels
d. accelerated in green-leaved seedlings
a. increased by exposure to light

H+ + HCO-3 --> <-- H2O + CO2
The equation above shows one of the reversible reactions that occur in blood. After exercise, an athlete's blood pH has dropped below the normal level. How will normal blood pH be restored?
a. an increase in o2 concentration in the plasma will lead to an increase in H+ concentration
b. an increase in temperature will lead to an increase in H+ concentration
c. an increase in sweating will lead to a decrease in OH- and H+ concentration
d. an increase in breathing rate will lead to a decrease in blood CO2 and H+ concentration
d. an increase in breathing rate will lead to more CO2 being exhaled and a decrease in H+ concentration

In a hypothetical population of beetles, there is a wide variety of color, matching the range of coloration of the tree trunks on which the beetles hide from predators. the graphs below illustrate four possible changes to the beetle population as a result of a change in the environment due to pollution that darkened the tree trunks. Which of the following includes the most likely change in the coloration of the beetle population after pollution and a correct rationale for the change?
The coloration in the population shifted toward more darker-colored beetles, as in diagram IV.

Researchers conducted a controlled experiment to investigate the effect of diet on the health of beef cattle. The initial hypothesis was that in abrupt change in diet will benefit beef cattle by reducing the size is a bacterial populations living in the digestive systems of cattle. In the experiment, searchers determined that the relative abundance of two bacterial species found in the rumen of cattle. The rumen is part of the stomach that acts as a fermentation chamber in cattle and other ruminants. Shown in the table are the results from before and after an abrupt change in the cattle's diet. Based on the results what best explains why the initial hypothesis should be revised
the abundance of One of the bacterial species increased in response to the change in diet

Chytridiomycosis is a potentially lethal fungal infection that adversely affects some frog populations. The incidence and severity of the fungal infection can vary over time. Which of the following statements best describes the changes in the frog population that are depicted in the model above?
(A) The fungus that infected the frog population was initially virulent but it later became harmless. Based on the trend over the past few years of the study, the fungus has become extinct.
(B) Infected individuals gradually died out, and genetically resistant individuals became more common. The frog population recovered because of the increased frequency of resistant individuals.
(C) The patterns of the curves on the graph indicate a sudden increase in the severity of the fungal infection. A large proportion of the frog population died because the individuals could not evolve fast enough.
(D) The size of the frog population decreased sharply upon initial contact with the fungus. The fungus eventually became symbiotic with individual frogs, and the frog population began to recover.
(B) Infected individuals gradually died out, and genetically resistant individuals became more common. The frog population recovered because of the increased frequency of resistant individuals.

Water in a pond contaminated with the weed killer atrazine is suspected of inhibiting metamorphosis (development from fertilized eggs to a tadpole then to an adult frog) in northern leopard frogs. A term of scientists collected fertilized northern leopard frog eggs from a different pond that is not contaminated. what is the best experimental design to determine whether atrazine is responsible for inhibiting metamorphosis in northern leopard frogs
Place half of the fertilized eggs in a pool of water with the same concentration of atrazine as the contaminated pond and place the other half of the fertilized eggs in a pool of water that has no atrazine. Monitor the development of the embryos through metamorphosis into adulthood.

(Graph)
Testosterone oxido-reductase is a liver enzyme that regulates testosterone levels in alligators. One study compared testosterone oxido-reductase activity between male and female alligators from Lake Woodruff, a relatively pristine environment, and from Lake Apopka, an area that has suffered severe contamination. The graph above depicts the findings of the study. The data in the graph bes support which of the following claims?
B) Environmental contamination reduces total testosterone oxido-reductase activity in female.

Under which of the following conditions is the observed number of beetles per culture dish the greatest?
A) T. confusum with parasite at 500 days
B) T. confusum without parasite at 300 days
C) T. castaneum with parasite at 100 days
D) T. castaneum with parasite at 600 days
C) T. castaneum with parasite at 100 days

The data over the duration of the experiment provide the strongest support for which of the following conclusions regarding the effect of the parasite on Tribolium populations?
A) T. confusum is adversely affected by the parasite, while T. castaneum is not.
B) T. castaneum is adversely affected by the parasite, while T. confusum is not.
C) Both T. confusum and T. castaneum are adversely affected by the parasite.
D) Both T. confusum and T. castaneum show increased fitness in the presence of the parasite.
B) T. castaneum is adversely affected by the parasite, while T. confusum is not.

If the experiment was continued for an additional 500 days, the population density of T. castaneum with the parasite would most likely stabilize at a value closest to which of the following?
A) 5 beetles/culture dish
B) 10 beetles/culture dish
C) 20 beetles/culture dish
D) 25 beetles/culture dish
B) 10 beetles/culture dish

according to the data above what is the deepest water level at which light penetration is expected to be at least 200? give answer to nearest tenth of a meter
1.5 m

based on the information in the graph how many times more ants are found on plants exposed to the solvent plus chemical compared to plants exposed to the solvent only? Give answer to the nearest tenth
2.6

what best describes the advantage that eukaryote organisms have over prokaryote organisms
eukaryotes have organelles that allow for compartmentalization of cellular processes, which increases the efficiency of those processes

Individuals with an inherited autosomal recessive disorder called primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) often have severe respiratory problems due to defective cilia. With PCD are often sterile because they produce sperm with defective flagella. Which of the following most likely explains the effect of the recessive allele
The cells do not produce functional motor proteins in the flagella and cilia

Which of the following depicts the most
probable pathway of processing and
packaging a secretory protein within a
eukaryotic cell?
B. Rough endoplasmic reticulum → Golgi body → secretory vesicles → cell membrane

The figure below illustrates a eukaryotic cell. Which of the following best describes how the three structures indicated by the arrows work together
To synthesize and isolate proteins for secretion or for use in the cell

Simple cuboidal epithelial cells line the ducts of certain human exocrine glands. Various materials are transported into or out of the cells by diffusion. (The formula for the surface area of a cube is 6 X S squared, and the formula for the volume of a cube is S cubed, where S=the length of a side of the cube.) Which of the following cube-shaped cells would be most efficient in removing waste by diffusion?
a) (picture of smallest cube)

the diagram below shows energy changes in a specific chemical reaction with and without the addition of an enzyme to the reaction what question can be answered by the diagram
does the addition of an enzyme reduce the activation energy required for a reaction?

The salinity of a small inland lake has recently started to increase. Researchers are planning to study the lake over several decades to investigate how freshwater organisms survive significant changes in their natural habitat. Which of the following physiological mechanisms will the researchers are most likely observe among the surviving organisms in the lake
Single celled organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the increased flow of water from cells to the environment
Hint: Hi goes to Lo

Which graph depicts the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction from low substrate concentrations to saturating substrate concentrations?
curving up until plateauing, do to enzymes becoming the limiting factor

the contents of which dialysis tube are initially isotonic to the distilled water in the beaker?
5

a net movement of water into the beaker occurs in which of the following dialysis tubes?
6

to model a plant cell, a permeable, nonflexible case is placed around each piece of dialysis tubing. the greatest pressure potential will develop within dialysis tube number?
4

enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline (basic) pH are represented by which of the following graphs?
II only (line goes up until plateaus at pH > 7)

graphs representing enzyems sensitive to changes in pH include which of the following
I, II, and III only (because all have graphs thta are not just a straight line)

the most likely explanation for the results shown in graph 1 is that
ph affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme

Paramecia are unicellular protists that have contractile vacuoles to remove excess intracellular water. In an experimental investigation, paramecia were places were placed in salt solutions of increasing osmolarity. The rate at which the contractile vacuole contracted in pump out excess water was determined and plotted against osmolarity of the solution, as shown is the graph. (Graph has negative slope; y-axis - rate of concentration, x-axis - osmolarity of solution.) Which of the following is the correct explanation for the data?

a. At higher osmolarity, lower rates of contraction are required because more salt diffuses into paramecia
b. The contraction rate increases as the osmolarity decreases becase of the reduced amount of ATP produced by cellular respiration
c. The contractile vacuole is less efficient in solutions of high osmolarity because of the reduced amount of ATP produced from cellular respiration
d. In an isosmotic salt solution, thre is no diffusion of water into or out of the paramecia, so the contraction rate is zero
b. The contraction rate increases as the osmolarity decreases becase of the reduced amount of ATP produced by cellular respiration

The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels

A human kidney filters about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately two liters of liquid and nutrient waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolved substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is secreted in response to reduced plasma volume. ADH targets the collecting ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporins into their plasma membranes and an increased reabsorption of water.If ADH secretion is inhibited, which of the following would initially result?
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine.

If ATP breakdown (hydrolysis) is inhibited, which of the following types of movement across cell membranes is also inhibited?
passage of a solute against its concentration gradient.

A common laboratory investigation involves putting a solution of starch and glucose into a dialysis bag and suspending the bag in a beaker of water, as shown in the figure below.
The investigation is aimed at understanding how molecular size affects movement through a membrane. Which of the following best represents the amount of starch, water, and glucose in the dialysis bag over the course of the investigation?
a

The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
A) Residual blood thyroxine, from prior to thyroid gland removal, will bind to cells in the anterior pituitary, signaling more TSH secretion.
B) Thyroxine will remain bound to thyroxine receptors on various body cells, and these body cells will secrete additional hormones that stimulate the anterior pituitary to secrete TSH.
C) Thyroxine that was stored in the anterior pituitary prior to thyroid gland removal will signal more TSH secretion.
D) A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion.
D) A decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion.

Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is important in maintaining homeostasis in mammals. ADH is released from the hypothalamus in response to high tissue osmolarity. In response to ADH, the collecting duct and distal tubule in the kidney become more permeable to water, which increases water reabsorption into the capillaries. The amount of hormone released is controlled by a negative feedback loop. Based on the model presented, which of the following statements expresses the proper relationship between osmolarity, ADH release, and urine production?
A) As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine
B) As tissue osmolarity rises, less ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine
C) As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing more water to be excreted as urine
D) As tissue osmolarity rises, less ADH is released, causing more water to be excreted as urine.
A) As tissue osmolarity rises, more ADH is released, causing less water to be excreted as urine

two nutrient solutions are maintained at the same ph actively respiring mitochondria are isolated and placed into each of the two solutions. oxygen gas is bubbled into one solution. the other solution is depleted of available oxygen. what best explains why atp production is greater in the tube with oxygen then in the tube without oxygen
the rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen

Which of the following best describes the function of the coenzymes NAD+ and FAD in eukaryotic cellular respiration?
(A) They participate in hydrolysis reactions by accepting protons from water molecules.
(B) They participate directly in the phosphorylation of ADP to ATP.
(C) They serve as final electron acceptors in the electron transport chain.
(D) They aid vitamins such as niacin in the break- down of glucose.
(E) Theyacceptelectronsduringoxidation- reduction reactions.
(E) Theyacceptelectronsduringoxidation- reduction reactions.

Which of the following is the best explanation for the pattern of change in mass of the organisms over time? (A) Water loss due to evaporation
(B) Cellular respiration
(C) The law of conservation of matter
(D) Growth and reproduction
(B) Cellular respiration

Which of the following statements best explains why oxygen is taken up more rapidly at 12 degrees C than at 20 degrees C?
at 12 degrees C a higher rate of oxygen consumption is required to maintain a high body temperature.

which of the following hypotheses is best supported by the results of this experiment?
metabolic rate per gram of tissue is higher in smaller mammals.

During aerobic cellular respiration, oxygen gas is consumed at the same rate as carbon dioxide gas is produced. In order to provide accurate volumetric measurements of oxygen gas consumption, the experimental setup should include which of the following?
A substance that removes carbon dioxide gas

According to the data, the mice at 10C demonstrated greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than did the mice at 25C. This is most likely explained by which of the following statements?
The mice at 10C had a higher rate of ATP production than the mice at 25C

According to the data, the crickets at 25 degrees C have greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than do crickets at 10 degrees C. This trend in oxygen consumption is the opposite of that in the mice. The difference in trends in oxygen consumption among crickets and mice is due to their
c) mode of internal temperature regulation

The chemical reaction for photosynthesis is 6 CO2 + 12 H2O + light energy --> C6H12O6 + 6 O2 + 6 H2O If the input water is labeled with a radioactive isotope of oxygen, 18O, then the oxygen gas released as the reactionsproceeds is also labeled with 18O. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
b) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.

Which of the following questions is most relevant to understanding the calvin cycle?
C. How is ATP used in the formation of 3-carbon carbohydrates?

n the Arctic Ocean, the predominant primary producers are phytoplankton. Phytoplankton are consumed by zooplankton, which in turn are eaten by codfish. In years when there is more open water (less ice coverage), there are more zooplankton and fish than in years with less open water (more ice coverage). Based on the graph above, the difference is most likely because
A) when there is less open water, light is blocked from the zooplankton, so they cannot produce as much food for the fish
B) when there is more open water, the
temperature is warmer, so the zooplankton and fish populations increase in size
C) the ice blocks the light, so in years with more ice coverage, there is less photosynthesis by the phytoplankton
D) the ice increases the light available for photosynthesis, so primary production increases and zooplankton populations increase in size
C) the ice blocks the light, so in years with more ice coverage, there is less photosynthesis by the phytoplankton

Which of the following provides the best indication that light is required for the activation of electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
A) Calculating the rate of change of the absorbance for sample 1
B) Comparing the observed results for sample 2 and sample 3
C) Repeating the entire experimental procedure at night
D) Including multiple trials for all the samples
B) Comparing the observed results for sample 2 and sample 3

Which of the following can be reasonably concluded from the experimental results?.
A) Chloroplasts must be suspended in a buffer solution to function properly.
B) The optimal temperature for activation of electron transfer is 25o C.
C) DCPIP inhibits biochemical reactions in suspended chloroplasts.
D) Light from a lamp can substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes
D) Light from a lamp can substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes

If an additional sample containing the chloroplast/DCPIP solution was placed at a distance of 90 cm from the lamp, which of the following predictions would be most consistent with the experimental results?
A) The concentration of DCPIP in the solution will increase exponentially.
B) The absorbance at 60 minutes will be roughly equal to 1.4.
C) The change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.
D) The temperature of the solution will exceed 75o C.
C) The change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.

Which of the following descriptions of photosynthesis best explains the results of the experiment?
A) Availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP depends on light energy.
B) Movement of DCPIP across chloroplast membranes occurs in less than 60 minutes.
C) Chlorophyll molecules degrade rapidly in the presence of DCPIP.
D) DCPIP can only be used to measure photosynthetic activity at low light levels.
A) Availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP depends on light energy.

Which of the following scientific questions could be investigated using a similar experimental setup?
A) How much carbon dioxide is required by a plant cell to produce one molecule of glucose?
B) What wavelength of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
C) Which molecule in chloroplasts accepts activated electrons from DCPIP during photosynthesis?
D) Are the same genes that are expressed in chloroplasts also expressed in mitochondria?
B) What wavelength of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
d) (leading strand going towards, lagging strand going away)

Sickle-cell anemia results from a point mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation results in the replacement of an amino acid that has a hydrophilic R-group with an amino acid that has a hydrophobic R-group on the exterior of the hemoglobin protein. Such a mutation would most likely result in altered
a) properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules

A new mutation that arose in one copy of gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation directly caused the tumor?
A) Protein X normally stimulates cell division, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
B) Protein X normally activates a growth hormone receptor, and the mutation decreased the stability of protein X
C) Protein X normally prevents passage through the cell cycle, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X.
D) Protein X normally regulates gene expression, and the mutation created an under active version of protein X that blocked the cell cycle
a. A

The first diagram below shows the levels of mRNA from two different genes (bicoid and caudal) at different positions along the anterior-posterior axis of a Drosophila eggs immediately before fertilization. The second diagram shows the levels of the two corresponding proteins along the anterior-posterior axis shortly after fertilization.

Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data?
a) Bicoid protein inhibits translation of caudal mRNA.

the mrna transcribed from the dna would read
c. 5' auc tag uuu ggc gca hug uaa

Which of the following modifications of the DNA would produce the greatest change in the primary structure of the polypeptide chain?
A) Deleting the first T in the second triplet
B) Changing the second triplet to read 3'-CTC-5'
C) Changing the third triplet to read 3'-AAC-5'
D) Changing the fourth triplet to read 3'-CCA-5'
E) Deleting the sixth triplet
a

in which of the following would there not be a change in the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide coded for by this dna
changing 3' aaa 5' to read 3' aag 5'

if chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of the cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in
condensation of chromatin in prep of nuclear division in both cells

A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores, with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describe what the next process will be in the cell?
paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell

The process depicted in the image above is best summarized by which of the following descriptions
During meiosis, crossing over at chiasmata leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes

dna replication occurs
during the s phase of the cell cycle

Which of the following normally leads to the production of functional messenger RNA in eukaryotic cells?
(A) A decrease in the rate of ribosome synthesis (B) The removal of portions of RNA known as
intervening sequences (introns)
(C) A decrease in RNA polymerase activity (D) The replication of new messenger RNA
molecules from existing messenger RNA
molecules
(E) Theformationofpeptidebondsbetween
adjacent nucleotides
(B) The removal of portions of RNA known as
intervening sequences (introns)

The processes illustrated in the models depicted above all result in which of the following
an increase in genetic diversity

mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells
Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?

a) the mitochondrion is the only location in which eukaryotic cells can synthesize atp
b) an ancestral cell most likely engulfed and aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells
c) mitochondrial membrane provide abundant surface area for reactions because of the infoldings called cristae
d) the mitochondrion plays a role in respiration but it also stores the cell's mRNA
B

Which of the following statements about the two population sis best supported by the info presented in the graph
a) the reproductive rate of the wolves was greater than the reproductive rate of the moose
b) mutualism allowed the two population so reporoduce while occupying the same ecological space
c) speciation occurred when the two population became reproductively isolated from each other
d) The wolves were predators of the moose which were otherwise reproductively succesful
d) The wolves were predators of the moose which were otherwise reproductively succesful

sickle cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at pos. 6. all other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. based on the info , which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle cell anemia
a)a translocation of DNA from one chromosome to another
b) a single base pair insertion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
c) a single pair deletion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
d) a single base pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
d

which of the following statements accurately uses the info presented to support the hypothesis that interruptions of M functions in a single body cell can result in cancer
a) protein 3 will be prevented from interacting with CAMs causing the cell cycle to stop permanently
b) the ras protein will remain bound to DNA blocking expression of genes required for mitosis
c) growth factor signaling can trigger mitosis in cells that are n direct contact with other cells
d) the receptor proteins of body cells will no longer bind to growth factor proteins
a or d

which of the following questions would be most appropriate to investigate whether the proteolytic enzymes are evolutionarily conserved among species?
a)are the genes encoding the proteolytic enzymes expressed in the same cell types in all species?
b) if a proteolytic enzyme from one species is incubated with a precursor protein from another species, does correct cleavage occur?
c) one the precursor protein of different species are cleaved, do the active signaling proteins bind to the same receptors on different target cells?
d) tare the proteolytic enzymes synthesized in the rough ER of all species?
c ?

which of the following statement about how honeybees communicate the position of flower patches is most consistent with the model?
a)the number of repetitions of the waggle dance indicates the quality of the pollen source
b)the total are covered by any waggle dance leads bees to the target flowers
c) the angle of the waggle phase relative tot the vertical plane indicates the position of the target flowers relative to another beehive
d) the farther the target flowers from the hive, the longer the waggles phase
d

a scientist is designing a plan for investigating how the fish in the ocean pens might affect nearby ecosystems
which of the following is the most appropriate factor to use as the dependent variable in the experimental investigation
a) the amount of metabolic wastes in the water where the fish are being raised
b) the water temp in the natural habitat of the fish being studied
c) the types of fish that are consumes by humans
d) the amount of time it takes for fish to digest a meal
a

which of the following describes the initial steps in the process whereby epinephrine stimulates glycogen breakdown
a) epinephrine bind to a cell surface receptor, the activated receptor stimulates production of the second messenger, cAMP
b) epinephrine bind to a cell surface receptor, the activated receptor catalyzes the conversion of glycogen to glucose
c) epinephrine diffuses through the plasma membrane, the hormone dismerizes in the cytosol
d) epinephrine is taken into the cell by endocytosis, glycogen is converted to glucose in the endocytotic vesicle
a

which of the following scientific questions is most relevant to the model represented in the figure above
a) is atp required for the trans of sugars across the outer mitochondrial membrane
b) do the types of phospholipids in a membrane affect the rate at which molecules enter a cell by passive diffusion
c) which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane
d) how does temperature affect the movement ofmolecules into lysosomes
c

the students concluded that pea plants grew better in compost than did melon plants. Which of the following best addresses the validity of the conclusion made by the students?
a) the conclusion is valid because the independent and dependent variables in the experiment were controlled
b) the conclusion is valid because the experimental design included a large sample size
c) the conclusion is invalid because other variables in the experiment affected the results
d) invalid because the units of measurement were not given in the experimental design
c

which of the following claims is most consistent with the observed butterfly behavior
a) butterflies that express two variants of the enzyme are active over a greater range of temperatures
b) butterflies that are active over a wide range of temperatures produce greater amounts of the enzymes
c) temp has little effect of the activity of the butterflies
d) butterflies that are active at warmer temperatures produce more offspring
a

which of the following best justifies the claim that the condition sin at least on e of the experiments could generate the molecular building blocks essential for life
a_ the carbon dioxide gas and water vapor in 1 could react to produce the phospholipids required by the first life forms
b) the nitrogen gas and ammonia gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids
c) the sulfur dioxide gas in experiment 2 could donate the excited electrons required to drive photosynthesis
d) the methane gas in 2 could act as the electron acceptor required for cellular resp
a or b

based on the info presented, which of the following will also occur in response to steroid signaling?
a)histone protein synthesis will increase because histones maintain the DNA in an optimal conformation for chromosome assembly
b) ribosome production will increase because ribosomes are specific for the mRNA with which they bind during translation
c) DNA replication will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to the DNA
d) production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone receptor complex to the DNA
d

which of the following best describes the reproductive ability of C. elegans folloowing the ARD induced in the first experiment
a) mating with a well fed male consistently produced more offspring than did reproduction via self fertilization

In an experiment, cells were isolated from an aquatic plant and suspended in pond water, a sucrose sugar solution, or distilled water. All of the cells were then viewed under a microscope. Compared with the cell in the pond water, the cell in the sugar solution appeared shriveled, and the cell in the distilled water appeared inflated. The results of the experiment are represented in Figure 1.
Figure 1. The results of an experiment using aquatic plant cells

Which of the following statements best explains the observations represented in Figure 1 ?
There was a net movement of water out of the cell suspended in the sugar solution and a net movement of water into the cell suspended in the distilled water.

Which statement best describes the effect on water transport across the cell membrane if the aquaporin in the figure ceases to function
Water molecules will still be able to move across the cell membrane but at a slower rate.

Simple diffusion and facilitated diffusion are related in that both
depend on a concentration gradient

A student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition.
• 28% adenine
• 20% thymine
• 35% cytosine
• 17% guanine
Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
Single-stranded DNA

Intact cells of two unknown cell types were placed into solutions with different concentrations of NaCl. Type I cells swelled and burst in the solution with the lowest concentration of NaCl. Type II cells swelled but did not burst in the solution with the lowest concentration of NaCl.
Which of the following descriptions of cell type I and cell type II are most consistent with the data?
Cell 1-Animal cell surrounded by a plasma membrane only
Cell 2-Plant cell surrounded by a plasma membrane and a cell wall

A human kidney filters about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately two liters of liquid and nutrient waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolved substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is secreted in response to reduced plasma volume. ADH targets the collecting ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporins into their plasma membranes and an increased reabsorption of water.
If ADH secretion is inhibited, which of the following would initially result?
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine.

Figure 1 represents a nucleic acid fragment that is made up of four nucleotides linked together in a chain.
Which of the following characteristics of Figure 1 best shows that the fragment is RNA and not DNA?
The identity of each nitrogenous base

Water and ammonia interact to form hydrogen bonds, as represented in the figure.
Which statement best helps explain the formation of the hydrogen bond represented in the figure?
The nitrogen has a partial negative charge, and the hydrogen attached to the oxygen has a partial positive charge.

All of the following cell components are found in prokaryotic cells EXCEPT
nuclear envelope

All eukaryotic cells contain at least one Golgi complex, typically located in the cytoplasm and near the endoplasmic reticulum.
Which of the following best describes a process that occurs within the Golgi complex?
Enzymatic modification of newly synthesized integral membrane proteins

A team of biologists develop a new drug, and one team member hypothesizes that the drug is incapable of freely passing across the plasma membrane and requires the help of membrane proteins to enter cells. Alternatively, another biologist on the team hypothesizes that the drug can diffuse passively across the plasma membrane like O2 and CO2 can.
Which of the following, if true about the drug, best supports the alternative hypothesis that the new drug will exhibit simple diffusion across plasma membranes?
The drug is a small nonpolar molecule.

Researchers claimed that a particular organelle originated from a free-living prokaryotic cell that was engulfed by a larger cell, as shown in Figure 1.
Which of the following provides evidence to best support the researchers' claim?
The organelle has a double membrane.

Muscle cells have high ATP demands. Which of the following is a scientific claim about how the structure of the mitochondria in muscle cells should be different than it is in other cells because of the high energy demands of mitochondria?
The inner membrane of the mitochondria in muscle cells should have more folds to increase the surface area, allowing more ATP to be synthesized.

A spherical bacterial cell has a radius of 3μm. The human egg cell has a radius of 100μm.
Which statement correctly indicates the cell that is able to more efficiently exchange materials with the external environment and provides a correct explanation?
The bacterial cell, because it has the largest surface-to-volume ratio.

Cholesterol is an important component of animal cell membranes. Cholesterol molecules are often delivered to body cells by the blood, which transports the molecules in the form of cholesterol-protein complexes. The complexes must be moved into the body cells before the cholesterol molecules can be incorporated into the phospholipid bilayers of cell membranes.
Based on the information presented, which of the following is the most likely explanation for a buildup of cholesterol molecules in the blood of an animal?
The animal's body cells are defective in endocytosis.

The following questions refer to an experiment in which a dialysis-tubing bag is filled with a mixture of 3% starch and 3% glucose and placed in a beaker of distilled water, as shown below. After 3 hours, glucose can be detected in the water outside the dialysis-tubing bag, but starch cannot.
From the initial conditions and results described, which of the following is a logical conclusion?
The pores of the bag are larger than the glucose molecules but smaller than the starch molecules.

Which of the following best describes the structures of carbohydrates?
They occur as monomers, chains of monomers, and branched structures.

Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria. In an experiment, bacteriophages were labeled with either radioactive phosphorus or radioactive sulfur. The labeled bacteriophages were incubated with bacteria for a brief amount of time and then removed. The infected bacteria cells were found to contain significant amounts of radioactive phosphorus but not radioactive sulfur.
Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
DNA

A common laboratory investigation involves putting a solution of starch and glucose into a dialysis bag and suspending the bag in a beaker of water, as shown in the figure below.
The investigation is aimed at understanding how molecular size affects movement through a membrane.
Which of the following best represents the amount of starch, water, and glucose in the dialysis bag over the course of the investigation?
water goes up
glucose goes down
starch stays the same

Which of the following statements best explains the processes of passive and active transport?
Passive transport is the net movement of substances down a concentration gradient that does not require metabolic energy. Active transport is the movement of substances up a concentration gradient that requires energy.

Which of the following best describes the numbered areas?
Areas 1 and 3 are polar, since the membrane molecules are aligned with water molecules

Membrane-bound organelles have been an important component in the evolution of complex, multicellular organisms. Which of the following best summarizes an advantage of eukaryotic cells having internal membranes?
organelles isolate specific reactions, increasing metabolic efficiency.

The carbohydrates glucose, galactose, and fructose have the same chemical formula (C6H12O6) but different structural formulas, as represented in the figure.
Which of the following statements about glucose, galactose, and fructose is most likely true?
The carbohydrates have different properties because they have different arrangements of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms.

Researchers compared similar proteins from related organisms in different habitats. They found that the proteins from organisms living in harsh environments had a greater number of cysteine amino acids than did proteins from organisms not living in harsh environments. The structure of cysteine is shown. Bonds can form between the sulfur atom of different cysteine amino acids (S-S bonds).
Which of the following best describes the effect of a greater number of cysteine amino acids on the stability of the proteins?
The change leads to increased protein stability because of an increased number of S-SS-S bonds in the tertiary structure of the proteins.

The figure shows a process by which a cell might absorb food from its surrounding environment and break it down for use as a source of energy and matter. The process involves lysosomes, which are membrane-bound organelles that contain hydrolytic enzymes. Activation of the hydrolytic enzymes requires an acidic pH, and lysosomes maintain an internal acidic pH by using ion pumps.
Which of the following outcomes will most likely result from a loss of ion pump function in the cell's lysosomes?
The internal pHpH of the lysosomes will increase, which will prevent the activation of hydrolytic enzymes and interfere with the intracellular digestion of food.

A prokaryotic cell has which of the following?
plasma membrane

Figure 1 represents a common process that occurs in organisms.
Which of the following is an accurate description of the process shown in Figure 1 ?
The formation of a covalent peptide bond in a dehydration synthesis reaction

Which of the following statements best describes how organisms such as rabbits obtain the carbon necessary for building biological molecules?
Rabbits eat plants and break down plant molecules to obtain carbon and other atoms that they rearrange into new carbon-containing molecules.

A pathogenic bacterium has been engulfed by a phagocytic cell as part of the nonspecific (innate) immune response. Which of the following illustrations best represents the response?
the one with lysosomes

Paramecia are unicellular protists that have contractile vacuoles to remove excess intracellular water. In an experimental investigation, paramecia were placed in salt solutions of increasing osmolarity. The rate at which the contractile vacuole contracted to pump out excess water was determined and plotted against osmolarity of the solutions, as shown in the graph. Which of the following is the correct explanation for the data?
The contraction rate increases as the osmolarity decreases because the amount of water entering the paramecia by osmosis increases.

Which of the following modifications to the experimental design would improve the reliability of the results presented in figure 1?
B. Measuring blood glucose levels in a group of mice that were not given STZ

Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data presented in figure 1?
B. Implanted hESC-b cells are effective at regulating blood glucose levels in the absence of mice b-cells

Which of the following best justifies the researchers' claim that hESC-b implants can functionally replace the mouse's naturally occurring b-cells?
D. The mouse with an h-ESC B implant successfully regulated blood glucose levels by regenerating

In contrast to type 1 diabetes, where there is no inclusion production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failure...
A. The treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-B cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells

Based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC- B cells use negative feedback to return
C. Increased insulin secretion by hESC-b cells

B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens (th chart)
A. Activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells

Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome
B. Single-stranded DNA

Which of the following communities is likely to be most stable?
C. One with high species diversity

Which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure
C. It has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes

Some blackcaps that migrate to UK have become distinguishable by certain physical and behavioral traits
B. The blackcaps that migrate to the UK will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population

The endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system
After a meal, blood glucose levels become elevated, stimulation beta beta cells of the pan crease to release insulin into the blood. Excess glucose is then converted to glycogen in the liver, reducing blood glucose levels

Which of the following is true
Although hormones are carries to all parts of the body, they produce effects only in cells with proper receptors

Which endocrine glands are often called the master control center
Hypothalamus and pituitary

The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentration of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data
A low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released

The center of conscious and intelligence is the
Cerebrum

Which of the following immune system system components is correctly matched to its function
Helper T cell: activates B cells

Multiple sclerosis is a degenerative disease that is caused by the immune response attacking the myelin sheath that surrounds the nerves of the central nervous system. How would an immunologist classify this disease
An autoimmune disorder

A group of researchers believe that they have extracted a new hormone from the cells of the pancreas. They attempt to characterize the hormone, and find it is fat soluble. Choose the most likely mechanism of action for the hormones target cells
The hormone moves into a cell and causes changes in gene expression in the nucleus

When a stimulus is applied to a receptor in the skin, an action potential is propagated along a neuron to the brain, where another signal is sent back to then muscle for response.
Which of the following best describes what occurs when the action potential reaches a chemical synapse at the end of an axon
The action potential cause a release of neurotransmitter that travel across the synapse

An effective vaccine does all of the following except
Produce passive immunity

A human kidney filter about 200 liters of blood each day. Approximately 2 liters of liquid and nutrients waste are excreted as urine. The remaining fluid and dissolve substances are reabsorbed and continue to circulate throughout the body. ADH is secreted in response to reduce plasma volume. ADH targets this collection ducts in the kidney, stimulating the insertion of aquaporions into their plasma membrane and an increased reabsorption of water
The person would produce greater amounts of dilute urine

The barriers of invasion by microbes can involve
All of these

A dog is following the scent of a jackrabbit . Which of the following accurately describes how the dogs brain integrates information for smell
Chemoreceptors cells in the nasal cavity send impulses to the appropriate area of the brain

Control of body temperature is an example of which of the following
Both homeostatic mechanism and negative feedback system

What happens at time C of the action potential
Potassium gates close and sodium gates open

a cell that contains proteins enabling a hormone to selectively bind to its plasma membrane is called a
target cell

only certain cells in the body are target cells for the steroid hormone aldosterone. which of the following is the best explanation for why these are the only cells that respond to this hormone?
only target cells contain receptors for aldosterone

which of the following glands show both endocrine and exocrine activity?
pancreas

the endocrine system incorporates feedback mechanisms that maintain homeostasis. Which of the following demonstrates negative feedback by the endocrine system?
after a meal, blood glucose levels become escalated, stimulating beta cells of the pancreas to release insulin into the blood...

the secretion of hormone A causes a change in the amount of protein X in an organism. If this mechanism works by positive feedback, which of the following statements represents that fact?
an increase in A produces an increase in X

The diagram above illustrates feedback control as exerted by the hormone thyroxine. Following surgical removal of the thyroid gland, the level of TSH in the blood will increase. Which of the following best explains this increase?
a decrease in thyroxine levels means a loss of inhibition to the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary, leading to increased TSH secretion

Which picture below best represents how testosterone can alter gene expression of these proteins
A

When an individual is subject to short-term starvation, most available food is used to provide energy rather then building blocks. Which hormone would be particularly active in times of food stress?
glucagon

What happens when beta cells of the pancreas release insulin into the blood?
body cells take up more glucose

The graph above shows changes in glucagon and insulin secretions at different concentrations of blood glucose. Which of the following feedback mechanisms is best supported by the data?
a low glucose level causes the release of glucagon, which stimulates the release of more glucose from the tissues, which in turn lowers the amount of glucagon being released

How many chromosomes are in a human primary spermatoctye
46

how many chromosomes are in a human spermatid
23

sperm gain full mobility in the
epididymis

..... Assuming the AAS function in the same way as naturally occurring testosterone. It is most likely that long-term abuse of AAS would
reduce sperm production

in vertebrae animals during the process of oogenesis, one primary oogonium develops into ___ active egg cells
1

In human females, fertilization normally occurs in the ____ and implantation occurs in the ____
oviduct, uterus

what does gastrulation accomplish
it causes inward folding of a blastula leading to the beginning of a digestive tract and three distinct germ tissue layers

Master genes that control the expression of other genes responsible for anatomical structures are called
hox genes

which of the following claims is supported by the data?
gene A promotes neuron development and gene B promotes programmed cell death in neuronal precursors

this layer gives rise to the brain and eyes
ectoderm

this layer givers rise to the lining of the digestive tract
endoderm

this later gives rise to bones and blood
mesoderm

this hormone causes labor
oxytocin

this hormone is released by the hypothalamus and stimulates anterior pituitary to release other homrones
GnRH

this hormone stimulates the development of the egg inside the growing follicle
FSH

this hormone is responsible for thickening the endometrial lining of the uterus
estrogen

this hormone stimulates sperm production
FSH

this hormone is what is used in pregnancy test
hCG

Which of the following functional differences between the rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
is explained by the structural differences between them?
D. rough can synthesize and package proteins for export, and smooth cannot.

Which of the following statements best explains the processes of passive and active transport?
b. passive transport is the net movement of substances down a concentration gradient that does not require metabolic energy. Active transport is the movement of substances up a concentration gradient that requires energy.

The endosymbiont theory proposes a model for the evolution of mitochondria. According to the model, an ancestral eukaryote engulfed a small, free-living prokaryotic organism. The engulfed prokaryote then formed an endosymbiotic relationship with the eukaryotic host.

Which of the following observations best supports the model?
Mitochondria and some prokaryotes share similar metabolic reactions that produce ATP
ATP

Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increasing the permeability of the mitochondrial membranes to large molecules?
ATP production will decrease because of an increase in the occurrence of uncontrolled chemical reactions.

Muscle cells have high ATP
demands. Which of the following is a scientific claim about how the structure of the mitochondria in muscle cells should be different than it is in other cells because of the high energy demands of mitochondria?
a. The inner membrane of the mitochondria in muscle cells should have more folds to increase the surface area, allowing more ATP
ATP to be synthesized.

Plant cell walls are composed of cellulose, while fungal cell walls are composed of chitin. A group of scientists hypothesize that this difference means the cell wall has largely different functions in plant cells and fungal cells. Alternatively, another group of scientists hypothesize that despite their biochemical differences, plant and fungal cell walls serve similar functions.

Which of the following observations would best support the alternative hypothesis described above?
b. in both plant cells and fungal cells, the cell wall surrounds the outside of the cell membrane.

Cholesterol is an important component of animal cell membranes. Cholesterol molecules are often delivered to body cells by the blood, which transports the molecules in the form of cholesterol-protein complexes. The complexes must be moved into the body cells before the cholesterol molecules can be incorporated into the phospholipid bilayers of cell membranes.

Based on the information presented, which of the following is the most likely explanation for a buildup of cholesterol molecules in the blood of an animal?
b. The animal's body cells are defective in endocytosis.

All eukaryotic cells contain at least one Golgi complex, typically located in the cytoplasm and near the endoplasmic reticulum.

Which of the following best describes a process that occurs within the Golgi complex?
a. Enzymatic modification of newly synthesized integral membrane proteins

Changing the shape or morphology of the mitochondrial inner membrane can change the efficiency of mitochondrial function.

Which of the following outcomes will most likely result from a change in the shape of the mitochondrial inner membrane from a highly folded surface to a smooth, flat surface?
d. Mitochondria will become less efficient because the surface area of the inner mitochondrial membranes will decrease.

Which of the following claims is scientifically accurate and consistent with an observation that a decrease in lysosome production within a cell leads to a decline in mitochondrial activity?
b. Fewer lysosomes will be available to break down macromolecules to provide the necessary nutrients for cellular respiration.

Aquaporins are channel proteins that facilitate the transport of water across the cell membrane. One group of researchers hypothesizes that without functional aquaporins, no water will be able to enter the cell. A different group proposes an alternative hypothesis, stating that even with nonfunctional aquaporins, a small amount of water will still cross the cell membrane. An experiment is set up in which plant cells with mutated (nonfunctional) aquaporins and plant cells with normally functioning aquaporins are both placed in distilled water.

Which of the following data would support the alternative hypothesis?
d. Cells with mutated aquaporins exhibit moderate turgor pressure and are hypertonic.

Which statement best describes the effect on water transport across the cell membrane if the aquaporin in the figure ceases to function?
b. Water molecules will still be able to move across the cell membrane but at a slower rate.

All of the following cell components are found in prokaryotic cells EXCEPT
d. nuclear envelope

An investigator wants to understand whether a newly found membrane protein is involved in membrane transport of a certain particle. Which investigation will help determine whether the new membrane protein is a channel protein involved in membrane transport?
c. Add more of the proteins to the plasma membrane and measure the rate of the particle movement.

A prokaryotic cell has which of the following?
c. plasma membrane

Process in which O2 is released as a byproduct of oxidation-reduction reactions
light dependent reactions

In a hypotonic solution, an animal cell will
lyse

Which of the following groups contains prokaryotic organisms capable of surviving the greatest extremes in temperature or salt concentration?
arachaebacteria

An organelle that is characterized by extensive, folded membranes and is often associated with ribosomes
endoplasmic reticulum

Water enters and leaves the plant cells primarily by
osmosis

A student using a light microscope observes a cell and correctly decides that it is a plant cell because
it has a large central vacuole

Process in which sugar is oxidized to pyruvic acid
glycolysis

Simple diffusion and facilitated diffusion are related in that both
depend on a concentration gradient

During respiration, most ATP is formed as a direct result of the net movement of
electrons through a channel

A large stand of aspen trees may be a group of genetically identical individuals produced by vegetative reproduction. Such a collection is called a
clone

Site of transport of materials into and out of the cell
cell membrane

A prokaryotic cell has which of the following?
cell membrane

Single membrane structures in the cell that perform many metabolic functions and produce hydrogen peroxide
peroxisomes

In a mesophyll of a leaf, the synthesis of ATP occurs in which of the following? I. ribosomes II. mitochondria III. chloroplasts
II and III

On a sunny day, the closing of stomata in plant leaves results in
a decrease in CO2 intake

Which letter represents the activation energy of the enzyme-catalyzed reaction?
B

Which of the following best supports the statement that mitochondrion are descendants of endosymbiotic bacteria-like cells?
mitochondrion and bacteria possess similar ribosomes and DNA

Which of the following processes is carried out more efficiently by a C4 plant than by a C3 plant?
fixation of CO2

Process in which CO2 is released as a byproduct of oxidation-reduction reactions
krebs cycle

From the perspective of the cell receiving the message, the three stages of cell signaling are
signal reception, signal transduction, and cellular response

Which letter represents the net energy change of the reaction?
D

Which organelle contributes to the formation of the cell plate in plant cells during cytokinesis?
golgi

All of the following are typical components of the plasma membrane of a eukaryotic cell EXCEPT
cytochromes

Which of the following is best observed by using a compound light microscope?
a eukaryote

Process found in both photosynthesis and cellular respiration
chemiosmosis

Dialysis tubing is filled with 3% starch and 3% glucose and placed in a beaker of distilled water, after 3 hours glucose can be detected outside the bag, but starch cannot.
Which best describes the condition expected after 24 hours?
the bag will contain more water than it did in the original condition

Process in which carbon from CO2 is incorporated into organic molecules
calvin cycle

Which of the following is an example of active transport across a membrane?
movement of H+ into a thylakoid disc during photosynthesis

Which of the following pathways for the transformation of cellular energy most likely evolved first?
glycolysis

Site of glucose synthesis
chloroplast

The sites of cellular respiration
mitochondria

Dialysis tubing is filled with 3% starch and 3% glucose and placed in a beaker of distilled water, after 3 hours glucose can be detected outside the bag, but starch cannot.
Which of the following is a logical conclusion?
the pores of the bag are larger than the glucose molecules but smaller than the starch molecules

A + B --> AB + energy
exergonic

Membranes are components of all of the following EXCEPT a
microtubule

Dialysis tubing is filled with 3% starch and 3% glucose and placed in a beaker of distilled water, after 3 hours glucose can be detected outside the bag, but starch cannot.
If, instead of a bag, a potato slice were placed in the beaker of distilled water, which of the following would be true for the potato slice?
it would gain mass

Prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells generally have which of the following features in common?
ribosomes

Large molecules are moved out of the cell by which of the following processes?
exocytosis

Division of the cytoplasm of the cell
cytokinesis

A + B --> AB Which of the following best characterizes the reaction represented above?
endergonic

Oxygen consumption can be used as a measure of metabolic rate because oxygen is
necessary for ATP synthesis by oxidative phosphorylation

Sister chromatids begin to separate during which phase?
anaphase

After which of the following checkpoints in the cell cycle is the cell most likely fated to divide?
G1

Which of the following cells would most likely have the greatest concentration of densely packed rough E.R.?
a pancreatic cell engaged in the production of digestive enzymes

In a cell signal, how is the flow of specific ions regulated?
opening and closing of ligand-gated ion channels

Which of the following organelles modifies and packages for secretion the materials produced by the ribosomes?
golgi

The genetic material of the cell replicates to prepare for cell division during
interphase

Which of the following processes is coupled with the hydrolysis of ATP?
active transport

explain the difference between organic and inorganic compounds
Organic compounds contain carbon and inorganic compounds do not.

many biological structures are composed of smaller units assembled into more complex structures having functions based on their structural organization. for the following complex structures, describe the smaller units, their assembly into larger structures, and one major function of these larger, organized structures: and enzyme
ENZYME: protein made up of amino acid monomers. (small unit) amino acids are joined by peptide bonds to make polypeptides, which fold into proteins.

bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria. in an experiment, bacteriophages were labeled with either radioactive phosphorus or radioactive sulfur. the labeled bacteriophages were incubated with bacteria for a brief amount of time and then removed. the infected bacteria cells were found to contain significant amounts of radioactive phosphorus but not radio active sulfur.
based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells? how do you know?
radioactive phosphorus was used and nuclei acids are the only macromolecule that contains phosphorus.

the secondary compound cyanide is a toxic, bitter-tasing chemical that is found in apple seeds. cyanide in seeds is only released and tasted if the seed is crushed. when animals eat apples, they typically eat the sweet fleshy part of the fruit and spit out the seeds or swallow them whole.

based on the chemical structure of cyanide, identify one type of biological macromolecule that could serve as a chemical precursor for the production of cyanide in a plant. justify your answer.
cyanide could be made from the acids in proteins or nucleus acids. both of these molecules contain N, which is needed for cyanide.

the stems and fruits of pineapple plants contain a group of protein digesting enzymes collectively called bromelain often used as an anti browning agent for fruits and vegetables. fruits and vegetables brown when they are bruised during transport or sliced and exposed to air. this browning is controlled by enzymatic pathways that produce brown pigments. the browning of fruits and vegetables reduces the nutritional value of the food, so anti browning agents such as bromelain are used.

a.) identify the type of monomer of which this enzyme is composed
b.) bromelain works by breaking the enzymes that cause browning into smaller molecules. explain how the reaction that breaks up the enzymes occur
a.) Bromelain is an enzyme; enzymes are proteins composed of amino acid monomers.
b.) hydrolysis reactions break apart polymers by adding water and breaking covalent bonds.

the carbohydrates glucose, galactose, and fructose have the sa,e chemical formula (c6h12o6) but different structural formulas, as represented in the figure. are the properties of the molecules the same? why or why not?
these molecules are isomers. no, the properties are not the same, structure determines function and their structures are different.

describe how organisms such as rabbits obtain the carbon necessary for building biological molecules.
rabbits contain carbohydrates that are produced by plants when the plants undergo photosynthesis. the carbohydrates eaten by the rabbits are broken down by hydrolysis and the atoms from the carbs rearranged to form lipids.

researchers compared similar proteins from related organisms in different habitats, they found the proteins from organisms living in harsh environments had a greater number of cysteine amino acids that did proteins from organisms not living in harsh environments. the structure of cystine amino acids (S-S bonds). how does the number of S-S bonds affect the stability of the protein? which level of protein structure is affected?
disulfide bonds (S-S) are "super strong" and are part of the tertiary structure of a protein. proteins with more cysteine amino acids (contains s-sh group) have more disulfide bonds/bridges and are therefore more stable. this stability is important in harsh environments.

draw a water molecule the. label the partial charges and list two properties of water.
adhesive and cohesive

the physical structure of a protein often reflects and affects its function.
describe three types of chemical bonds/interactions found in proteins. for each type, describe its role in determining protein structure.
covalent peptide bonds between amino acids form the primary structure.
hydrogen bonds between amine and carboxyl groups form the secondary structure of fibrous proteins.
hydrogen bonds, disulfide bridges/bonds, and hydrophobic interactions between R-groups for the tertiary structure. this structure determines the function of the protein.

the molecular structures of linoleic acid and palmitic acid, two naturally occurring substances, are shown in the figure. based in the molecular structures shown in the future, which molecule is likely to be solid at room temperature? why?
palmatic acid is a lipid with a long saturated hydrocarbon chain. it is saturated with hydrogen because there are no double bonds between carbon atoms. saturated fatty acids are solid at room temp.

water and ammonia interact with hydrogen bonds, as represented in the figure. which parts of these molecules have a partial positive charge? negative charge? how/where does a hydrogen bond form.
the hydrogen bonds exist between the partially positive hydrogen of water and the partially negative nitrogen of ammonia.

the diagram shows water molecules as solid ice at 0c and as a liquid at 25c
describe how hydrogen form in water molecules. explain why ice floats in liquid water
hydrogen bonds form between the partially negative oxygen of one water molecule and the partially positive hydrogen of a different water molecule.
liquid water is more dense (water molecules are closer together) than ice. when hydrogen bonds form at temperatures below 0C / 32F, hydrogen bonds lead to the formation of a crystal like structure

a small protein is composed of 110 amino acids linked together in a chain. as shown in figure 1 the first and last five amino acids in the chain are hydrophobic (have nonpolar and uncharged R-groups), whereas the remaining 100 amino acids are hydrophilic (have charged or polar R- groups). the nature of the R- group determines if the amino acid is hydrophobic or hydrophilic.
a mutation results in the production of a version of the small protein that is only 105 amino acids long, as shown in figure 2. five of the hydrophobic amino acids are missing from one end of the change.
describe how the mutation would change the tertiary structure of the protein. be specific.
in figure 1, the two hydrophobic sections form a loop due to the hydrophobic interactions. the hydrophilic sections would surround the hydrophobic sections.
in figure 2, the polypeptide would not form a loop because the nonpolar amino acids are missing from the c-terminus.

describe the process occurring in this model
two amino acid monomers are joined by a covalent bond when a dehydration synthesis occurs. this reaction form a dipeptide and a water molecule.

describe the reaction occurring in this model. which type of macromolecule is is?
a polypeptide bond is broken into two half's by a hydrolysis reaction, which requires the addition of h2o

This figure shows he air water interface. describe the bonds and interactions between water molecules that would allow and insect to walk on the surface of the water.
hydrogen bonds between water molecules creates surface tension

describe how amino acids affect the tertiary structure of proteins
the r-groups of amino acids form hydrogen bonds, disulfide bridges/bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and ionic bonds to create tertiary structures.

the synthesis of protein or carbohydrate polymers always produces what as a byproduct?
h2o (dehydration synthesis creates polymers)

why does water have so many unique properties
hydrogen bonding

which type of bond is responsible for the cohesion of water molecules? which atoms does this bond form between?
hydrogen binding between the O of one water molecule and the H of another water molecule.

Sickle-cel anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule. Based on this info. which of the following mutations is most likely the cause of sickle-cell anemia?
Single base-pair substitution in beta subunit gene.

Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye has two alleles: a dominant allele (R) that results in red eyes and a recessive allele (r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex-linked gene that controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T) that allows for expression if the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for the expression of the colored pigments. Individuals without a T allele have white eyes regardless of the alleles of the other eye-color genes. Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed female and a red-eyed male?
RrX^tX^T x. RrX^TY

If an organism has the genotype of AaBB, what are the possible gametes?
AB, aB

Which of the following phenotypes are polygenic in humans?
Eye color, skin color, hair color, and height

You love to grow geraniums on your deck during the summer. You bought red and white geraniums last spring and planted them in the same large pots, You brought them into the house over the winter, and then in the spring returned them to your deck and re-potted them, spreading out the new little geranium pants. Once they bloomed, you notice that some of the flowers are red, some white, and now you gave some pink flowers. What is the mode of genetic inheritance?
Incomplete dominance

What is the phenotypic ratio of a monohybrid, heterozygous cross?
3:1

What genetic, neurological disease is a dominant, autosomal disease that usually causes death in your 50's?
Huntington's disease

What is the phenotypic ration of a dihybrid, heterozygous cross?
9:3:3:1

Hemophilia (X^h) is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a hemophiliac male marries a carrier female, which of the following is true?
50% of their daughters could be hemophiliac and 50% of their sons could be hemophiliac

Which of the following is NOT true of sex-influenced traits?
The genes are turned off or on by sex hormones.

Which of the following is NOT true about a karyotype?
Chromosome pairs are arranged from smallest to largest.

In Drosophila melanogaster, the allele for wild-type tan body (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for blackbody color (b). Similarly, the Elle fir wild-type wings shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing-type (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the expected and the observed results are shown. Which job the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.

A female who does not undergo puberty or menstruate, or lacks breast development may have
Turner syndrome

Which statements is/are true regarding the Barr body?
It is found in the nuclei of females, which chromosome inactivates is random, if the individual is heterozygous, you can get mosaic or patches of dominant/recessive traits, and It is composed of an inactivated X chromosome.

some strains of bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes secrete poisonous substances called exotoxins. The genes encoding for exotoxins are thought to have originated in bacteriophages which are viruses that infect bacteria. Which of the following is the most likely mechanism by which Streptococcus pyogenes acquired the ability ti produce exotoxins?
Bacteriophages DNA became integrated in the bacterial chromosome.

What term do we use to describe a mistake made during meiosis which leaves the tip of an X chromosome hanging by a thread?
Fragile-X syndrome

Where would you find the 5 carbon sugar group in the picture above?
C

Where would you fins one of the nitrogen bases in the picture of DNA above?
D

In fruit flies, the allele for vestigial wings is recessive to the allele for wild-type wings, and the allele for white eyes is recessive to the allele for red eyes. The gene controlling wing type is carried on an autosome whereas the gene controlling eye color is carried on the X chromosome. A true-breeding female with wild-type wings and white eyes is crossed with a male with vestigial wings and red eyes. What proportion of the offspring are expected to be males with wild-type wings and white eyes
.5

What is the process in which DNA makes an exact copy of itself for the sequence of amino acids in a protein?
Replication

Which of the following is most DIRECTLY responsible for the sequence of amino acids in protein?
Sequences of codons in mRNA

Prior ti protein synthesis taking place in the ribosome, the DNA...
Serves as a template for transition.

during the process of transcription, which of the following is true?
Patterns in DNA is copied into mRNA

Which of the following have to correct pairing of nitrogen bases in DNA?
A-T, C-G

What two organisms were used in the two experiments that were platformed to determine whether the genetic molecule was DNA or a protein>
A bacteria and a virus

Why do we use triplet codons?
There're 4 nitrogen bases and 20 amino acids.

What specific type of genetic mutation results in a normally functioning protein?
Silent mutation

Which of the following have the correct pairing of nitrogen bases in RNA?
A-U, C-G

In which direction does DNA polymerase add nucleotides to the end of a growing DNA daughter strand during replication?
3' to 5'

What term do we used to describe the fragments of the lagging strand during DNA replication?
Okazaki fragments

What is a semi-conservative replication?
Two new daughter strands are each composed of one parent strand and one./90 daughter strand.

Which enzyme builds the messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule?
RNA polymerase

During RNA splicing, what is removed from the initial messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule?
Introns

In the operon model, what is an operator?
Regulatory switch

What switches off an operon?
repressor

In our pGLO lab, what type of operon was present in the plasmid which required the presence of arabinose to make the E. coli colonies glow in the UV light?
Inducible operon

By which process can the same gene produce several different messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules are produced to make different proteins?
Alternative RNA splicing

Which of the following is NOT directly involved in the process of cell differentiation during embryonic development?
Morphogenesis

What important factor did Barbra McClintock discover in Indian corn?
Transposable elements

Which of the following is NOT true regarding viruses?
They are living

What viral cycle hides the viral genetic information in its host cell DNA?
Lysogenic cycle

What term do we use to describe a harmless derivative of a pathogen microbe that stimulates the immune system to mount defense against the actual pathogen?
Vaccine

What type of epidemic was depicted in the movie Contagion we watched in class?
Pandemic

When a bacteria takes up a plasmid containing a target gene, and replicates many copies of that gene, we consider that gene to be ______.
Recombined

Two girl babies are born at the same time, on the same day at the same hospital, and their identification bracelets fall off. Which of the following could be used ti correctly pair the baby with her parents?
Blood typing and DNA fingerprinting

What is the function of a restriction enzyme in genetic engineering?
Cut DNA at very specific sites

What do we call the biotechnology technique that cuts DNA into different length segments and sorts them creating unique naming patterns, can be used in court cases?
DNA fingerprinting

What so we call the process that requires all of the genes of an adult to be turned on again and does not guarantee an organism that will have the exact same personality?
Cloning of vertebrates

A bacterial cell that reproduces human proteins, ex: humalin, is called a ______________.
Transgenic organism

What type of stem cell can generate a complete new organism?
Totipotent

Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is least likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?
A defect in the cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase.

A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromaticism kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes the next process in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move towards opposite poles of the cell.

The process depicted in the image of paired homologous chromosomes with the centromeres linked is best summarized by which of the following description?
During meiosis, crossing over leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes.

If the chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in what?
Condensation of chromatin in preparation for nuclear division in both cells.

Based on the model of eukaryotic cell cycle regulation shown in the figure, which of the following best describes the effect of a drug that blocks the production of cyclin?
The cell would be prevented from entering mitosis and stop dividing.

Which of the following best describes the role of mitosis in the cell cycle?
Distributing replicated chromosomes to daughter nuclei.

The data above represent the result of three different crosses involving inheritance of a gene that determines whether a certain organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
The allele for blue is an X-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2.

In Drosophila melanogaster the allele for wild-type tan body color (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for black body color (b). Similarly, the allele for wild-type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing phenotype (v). In the cross BBVv x bbvv, the expected and observed results are shown. Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.

The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mitochondrial DNA because?
maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring.

Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye has two alleles: a dominant allele (R) that results in red eyes and a recessive allele (r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex-linked gene that controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T) that allows for expression of the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for expression of the colored pigments. Individuals without a T allele have white eyes regardless of the alleles of other eye-color genes. Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed female and a red-eyed male?
Rr X(t)X(t) x Rr X(t)Y

A blue-flowered African violet of unknown ancestry self-pollinated and produced 50 seeds. These seeds germinate and grow into flowering plants. Of these plants, 36 produce blue flowers and 14 produce pink flowers. What is the best explanation for the pink-flowered offspring?
Pink flower color is a trait recessive to blue flower color.

Eye color in a particular strain of fly is influenced by one gene with two alleles: a dominant allele that results in red eyes and a recessive allele that results in sepia eyes. A red-eyed female from a true-breeding population is mated with a sepia-eyed male. The F1 offspring are all red-eyed. The F1 flies are allowed to interbreed, producing the following F2 population:
Females: 40 red, 13 sepia
Males: 39 red, 11 sepia.
Which of the following best describes the likely mode of inheritance for the eye-color gene?
The eye-color gene is likely autosomal because males and females have similar phenotype ratios.

Tay-Sachs disease is a rare inherited disorder caused by an autosomal recessive allele of the HEXA gene. Affected individuals exhibit severe neurological symptoms and do not survive to reproductive age. Individuals who inherit one copy of the allele typically show no symptoms of the disorder. Which of the following pedigrees most accurately represents a family with a history of Tay-Sachs disease?
INSERT IMAGE

Male chickens carry two Z sex chromosomes, while female chickens carry only one Z sex chromosome and one W sex chromosome. Located on the Z chromosome is a gene for barring. Barred feathers have black and white stripes. The barred trait is dominated to the unbarred trait. Chickens have a fleshy growth on the top of the head called a comb. An autosomal train called rose comb is dominant to a trait called single comb. An unbarred male heterozygous for the rose-comb trait is crossed with a barred female with a single comb. What proportion of the progeny are expected to be barred males with single combs?
1/4

In a particular variety of corn, kernel color is controlled by a single gene with two alleles. The dominant allele results in purple kernels, and the recessive allele results in yellow kernels. A single corncob may contain hundreds of individual kernels, each of which is the result of a separate fertilization event. Predict the frequency of yellow kernels that result from a cross between two heterozygous plants.
1/4

The transmission of an action potential across a synapse involves the release of neurotransmitters by the presynaptic neuron. The arrival of the action potential triggers the rise in the calcium concentration in the synaptic terminal, and the change in concentration triggers a release of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft. Which of the following representations of the movement of Calcium, Sodium, and Potassium ions best shows how an action potential is transmitted to the postsynaptic neuron?
INSERT IMAGE

Information is transmitted through the nervous system when one neuron signals another neuron. The structure of neurons enables transmission to proceed quickly . Which does the following diagrams correctly identifies both the structure and information flow of neurons?
INSERT IMAGE

Steroid hormones, such as testosterone, pass through the plasma membrane and bind to an intracellular protein, as shown in the diagram below. The hormone-receptor complex then enters the nucleus, where it interacts with DNA to promote transcription of a specific gene.
Production of a specific mRNA will increase as a result of the binding of the hormone-receptor complex to DNA.

Based on the model, which of the following best explains why a bright green fluorescence was observed following stimulation of a presynaptic neuron?
GFP* contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis.

Which of the following best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?
Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.

Based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism by which CDK5 regulates neurotransmitter release?
CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.

Previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35. Which of the following best predicts how p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function
Degradation of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.

Which of the following statements best describes how a growth factor stimulates cell division outside a cell?
The growth factor binds to receptors on the cell surface, initiating a signal transduction pathway that activates specific target genes.

What is the universal donor blood type?
O-

Action of an antibody when it cross-links multiple antigens producing clumps of antigens
Agglutination

Which is dominant Rh+ or Rh-?
Rh+

What type of dominance do human blood types exhibit?

a. Dominance
b. Incomplete dominance
c. Codominance
d. Both a and b
e. Both a and c
E

In rabbits, the trait for short hair (S) is dominant, and the trait for long hair (s) is recessive. The trait for green eyes is dominant (G) and the trait for blue eyes is recessive (g). A cross between two rabbits produces a litter of 6 short-haired rabbits with green eyes, and 2 short-haired rabbits with blue eyes. What is the most likely genotype of the parent rabbits in this cross?

A. ssgg x ssgg
B. SSGG x SSGG
C. SsGg x SsGg
D. SsGg x SSGg
E. ssGG x ssGG
D

A couple has 6 children, all sons. If the woman has a seventh child, what is the probability that the seventh child will be a daughter?

A. 6/7
B. 1/7
C. 1/36
D. 1/49
E. 1/2
E

Cystic fibrosis is a recessively inherited disorder that results from a mutation in the gene encoding CFTR chloride ion channels located on the surface of many epithelial cells. The mutation prevents the normal movement of chloride ions from the cytosol of the cell to the extracellular fluid. As a consequence of the mutation, the mucus layer that is normally present on the surface of the cells becomes exceptionally dehydrated and viscous.

An answer to which of the following questions would provide the most information about the association between the CFTR mutation and the viscous mucus?

A. Is the mucus also secreted from the cells through the CFTR proteins?
B. How does the disrupted chlorine movement affect the movement of sodium ions and water by the cell?
C. How does the mutation alter the structure of the CTFR proteins?
D. What is the change in nucleotide sequence that results in the CTFR mutation?
C

A student in a biology class crossed a male Drosophila melanogaster having a gray body and long wings with a female D. melanogaster having a black body and apterous wings. The following distribution of traits was observed in the offspring:

Phenotype:Number of Offspring-
Gray body, long wings: 42
Black body, apterous wings: 41
Gray body, apterous wings: 9
Black body, long wings: 8

Which of the following is supported by the data?

A. The alleles for gray body and long wings are dominant
B. The alleles for gray body and long wings are recessive
C. Genes for the two traits are located on two different chromosomes and independent assortment occurred
D. Genes for the two traits are located close together on the same chromosome and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci
D

A new mutation that arose in one copy of gene X in a somatic cell resulted in the formation of a tumor. Which of the following pieces of evidence best describes how the new mutation directly caused the tumor?

A. Protein X normally stimulates cell division, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
B. Protein X normally activates a growth hormone receptor, and the mutation decreased the stability of protein X
C. Protein X normally prevents passage through the cell cycle, and the mutation created an overactive version of protein X
D. Protein X normally regulates gene expression, and the mutation created an underactive version of protein X that blocked the cell cycle
A

If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of w cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the

A. Replication of chromosomes only in the G1 cell
B. Exiting of both cells from the cell cycle and into the G0 phase
C. Condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells
D. Transfer of organelles from the G1 cell to the cell in the M phase
C

A certain species of plant has four unlinked genetic loci, W, X, Y, and Z. Each genetic locus has one dominant allele and one recessive allele. For a plant with the genotype WwXxYyZz, what is the probability that the plant will produce a gamete with a haploid genotype of Wxyz?
1/16

Chi Square: degrees of freedom= ______________ where n= _____________
N-1, number of conditions

The assumption you're beginning with; the opposite of what you're testing
Null hypothesis

The claim you're testing
Alternate hypothesis

A version of a gene
Allele

Allele combination: one of each type
Heterozygous

Allele combination: two dominant
Homozygous dominant

Allele combination: two recessive
Homozygous recessive

Matching pair of chromosomes; one from each parent
Homologous chromosomes

Carried in sex chromosomes
Sex linked genes

Any cells in the body other than reproductive cells
somatic cells

A haploid cell such as an egg or sperm. Unite during sexual reproduction to produce a diploid zygote.
gametes

All the genetic information in an organism; all of an organism's chromosomes.
genome

an organism or cell having only one complete set of chromosomes
haploid

an organism or cell having two sets of chromosomes
diploid

the cell undergoes most of its growing during this part of the cell cycle
G1

The synthesis phase of the cell cycle; the portion of interphase during which DNA is replicated.
S

Final preparation phase. Cell checks for DNA errors and begins to form centrosomes. (Prepares for Mitosis)
G2

Cell grows, performs its normal functions, and prepares for division; consists of G1, S, and G2 phases
interphase

First phase of mitosis in which duplicated chromosomes condense and mitotic spindle fibers begin to form
prophase

Centromeres of duplicated chromosomes are aligned at plate. Fully formed spindle attach to the sister chromatids from opposite poles
metaphase

Third phase of mitosis, beginning when sister chromatids separate from each other and ending when a complete set of daughter chromosomes have arrived at each of the two poles of the cell
anaphase

Final phase of mitosis during which chromosomes uncoil, a nuclear envelope returns around the chromatin, and a nucleolus becomes visible in each daughter cell
telophase

Division of the cytoplasm during cell division
cytokinesis

Substance found in eukaryotic chromosomes that consists of DNA tightly coiled around histones
chromatin

special proteins that wrap around DNA, forming chromatin networks
histones

A threadlike, gene-carrying structure found in the nucleus. Each one consists of one very long DNA molecule and associated proteins.
chromosome

Replicated forms of a chromosome joined together by the centromere and eventually separated during mitosis or meiosis II.
sister chromatids

contains one DNA molecule, condensed
unreplicated chromosome

contains two daughter DNA molecules
replicated chromosome

Region of a chromosome where the two sister chromatids attach
centromere

A specialized region on the centromere that links each sister chromatid to the mitotic spindle.
kinetochore

An assemblage of microtubules and associated proteins that is involved in the movements of chromosomes during mitosis.
mitotic spindle

a minute cylindrical organelle near the nucleus in animal cells, occurring in pairs and involved in the development of spindle fibers in cell division.
centrioles

microtubule organizing center that helps to form and organize the mitotic spindle during mitosis
centrosome

The area of the cell membrane that pinches in and eventually separates the dividing cell
cleavage furrow

In a plant cell, midline of dividing cells. Becomes the cell wall eventually.
cell plate

The cell cycle is a complex set of stages that is highly regulated with _______________, which determine the ultimate fate of the cell
checkpoints

_______________ and _______________ control the cell cycle
cyclins, cyclin dependent kinases

When a cell _______________, it often enters into a stage where it no longer divides, but it can reenter the cell cycle when given appropriate cues
specializes

_______________ cells may exit the cell cycle; or hold at a particular stage in the cell cycle
nondividing

When a cell in the S phase was fused with a cell in G1, the _______________ cell immediately entered the _______________ phase
G1, S

When a cell in the M phase was fused with a cell in G1, the _______________ cell immediately began mitosis
G1

_______________ stimulate other cells to divide
growth factors

In density-dependent inhibition, crowded cells _______________ dividing
stop

Cells anchor to dish surface and divide
anchorage dependence

When cells have formed a complete single layer, they stop dividing
density dependent inhibition

_______________ cells exhibit neither density-dependent inhibition nor anchorage dependence
cancer

_______________ cells do not respond normally to the body's control mechanisms
cancer

_______________ tumors invade surrounding tissues and can metastasize
malignant

_______________, a reduction division, followed by fertilization ensures genetic diversity in sexually reproducing organisms
meiosis

Meiosis ensures that each gamete receives one complete _______________ set of chromosomes
haploid

_______________ are the units of heredity and are segments of DNA
genes

Each gene in an organism's DNA has a specific _______________ on a certain chromosome
locus

In _______________ reproduction, one parent produces genetically identical offspring by mitosis
asexual

In _______________ reproduction, two parents give rise to offspring that have unique combinations of genes inherited from the two parents
sexual

In humans each _______________ cell has 46 chromosomes, made up of two sets; one set of chromosomes comes from each parent
somatic

_______________ chromosomes are the two chromosomes composing a pair, have the same characteristics, and may also be called autosomes
homologous

_______________ chromosomes are distinct from each other in their characteristics, and are represented as X and Y
sex

Meiosis _______________ reduces the number of chromosomes from diploid to haploid
1

Meiosis _______________ produces four haploid daughter cells
2

During _______________ and _______________ homologous chromosomes physically connect and exchange genetic information
synapsis, crossing over

Independent assortment of chromosomes: homologous pairs of chromosomes orient randomly at _______________ of meiosis
metaphase 1

Genes that are adjacent and close to each other on the same chromosome tend to move _______________
as a unit

The _______________ theory of inheritance states that Mendelian genes have specific loci on chromosomes
chromosome

_______________ genes tend to be inherited together because they are located near each other on the same chromosome
linked

_______________ offspring are those that show new combinations of the parental traits
recombinant

A _______________ is an ordered list of the genetic loci along a particular chromosome; can be developed using recombination frequencies
genetic map

A _______________ is the actual map of a chromosome based on recombination frequencies
linkage map

The _______________ genes are on a chromosome, the more likely they are to be separated during crossing over
farther apart

A gene located on either sex chromosome is called a _______________ gene
sex linked

In mammalian females, one of the two _______________ chromosomes in each cell is randomly inactivated during embryonic development
x

If a female is heterozygous for a particular gene located on the X chromosome, she will be a _______________ for that character
mosaic

When _______________ occurs, pairs of homologous chromosomes do not separate normally during meiosis-gametes contain two copies or no copies of a particular chromosome
nondisjunction

_______________ results from the fertilization of gametes in which nondisjunction occurred; it's a condition in which offspring have an abnormal number of a particular chromosome
aneuploidy

_______________ is a condition in which there are more than two complete sets of chromosomes in an organism
polyploidy

What does sickle cell anemia result from?
point mutation

What does Tay-Sachs disease result from?
recessive gene

What does Huntington's disease result from?
dominant gene

What does color blindness result from?
sex linked trait

What does down syndrome result from?
nondisjunction

What does Klinefelter's Syndrome result from?
nondisjunction

_______________ is caused by a recessive gene, it's a fatal central nervous system disease where the gene doesn't make enzymes to break down lipids in the brain and fats build up and harden causing permanent brain damage
Tay Sachs

_______________ is caused by a recessive gene which causes red blood cells to be "_______________(same)-shaped" so they can't carry a lot of oxygen
sickle cell

_______________; HAP gene causes the break down of brain cells, symptoms do not appear until later in life (30+), autosomal dominant disease
huntington's disease

_______________: caused by a recessive gene, carried on the X sex chromosome, more common in males than females
color blindness

color blindness is detected by the _______________ test
ishihara

Alteration of chromosome structure:
A _______________ removes a chromosomal segment
deletion

Alteration of chromosome structure:
A _______________ repeats a segment
duplication

Alteration of chromosome structure:
An _______________ reverses a segment within a chromosome
inversion

Alteration of chromosome structure:
A _______________ moves a segment from one chromosome to another, non homologous one.
translocation

_______________ syndrome is the result of an extra chromosome in a male, producing XXY individuals
klinefelter

_______________ syndrome is the result of monosomy X, producing an X0 karyotype
turner

_______________ chat is a disorder caused by a deletion in a chromosome
cri du

_______________ syndrome: 47 chromosomes, has 3 sex chromosomes (XXY), thin male with high pitched voice, mentally retarded, low fertility, 1 out of 1,000 births
klinefelter

_______________ syndrome: 45 chromosomes, only has 1 sex chromosome (XO), results in physically immature, sterile female, webbed neck and abnormally short
turner

certain cancers are caused by _______________ of chromosomes
translocations

_______________ genes are genes found in organelles in the cytoplasm
extranuclear

Some diseases affecting the muscular and nervous system are caused by defects in _______________ genes that prevent cells from making enough ATP (ex. multiple sclerosis)
mitochondrial

uptake of naked DNA
transformation

viral transmission of genetic information
transduction

cell to cell transfer
conjugation

movement of DNA segments within and between DNA molecules
transposition

In humans, hemophilia is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a man and a woman produce a son that is affected with hemophilia, which of the following is definitely true?

a. The mother carries an allele for hemophilia
b. The father carries an allele for hemophilia
c. The father is affected with hemophilia
d. Neither parent carries an allele for hemophilia
e. The boy's paternal grandfather is a hemophiliac
a

Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder with pleiotropic effects. An estimated 40,000 people in the United States are affected, including some prominent athletes. Spontaneous mutation gives rise to the allele. Genetic analysis shows it follows a pattern of autosomal dominant inheritance. What is the chance any child will inherit the allele if one parent is heterozygous for it? Assume the other parent is not affected.
1/2

If a sperm cell contains 12 chromosomes, it comes from an animal that has _______________ chromosomes

a. 4
b. 8
c. 12
d. 16
e. 24
e

If a cell contains 12 chromosomes at the end of meiosis I, how many chromosomes will the daughter cells contain at the end of meiosis II?

a. 3
b. 6
c. 12
d. 24
c

Alvin has free earlobes (caused by a dominant gene) and is unable to taste PTC (the ability to taste is dominant). Alvin's father had attached earlobes. Alvin marries Katrina who has free earlobes and is a taster (she is homozygous for both traits). Will all of their children be tasters and have free earlobes?

a. yes
b. no
a

Mendel proposed Three Laws of Genetics. They are:

a. Independent Assortment, Relativity, Natural Selection
b. Dominance, Allelic Combination, Independent Assortment
c. Heterozygosity, Segregation, Dominance
d. Dominance, Segregation, Independent Assortment
d

The ability to taste PTC paper is caused by a dominant allele. You are a PTC taster, your brother is not, your father is, your mother is not. What is your genotype for this trait?

a. TT
b. tt
c. Tt
d. none of these is correct
c

In peas, the yellow color is dominant to green, and the round shape is dominant to wrinkled. If a yellow, wrinkled pea that is heterozygous for color is crossed with a green, wrinkled pea, what is the expected phenotypic ratio?

a. 9:3:3:1
b. 1:1
c. 3:1
d. 1:2:1
e. none of these
b

A woman whose father was colorblind has a daughter who is colorblind. What is the genotype of her husband?

a. XNY
b. XnY
c. impossible to tell
b

If two people who have AB blood have four children, we know that one of the children will have type A blood, one will have type B, and the other two will have type AB.

a. true
b. false
b

Olga is married for the second time. Her first husband was blood type A and her child by that marriage was type O. Her new husband is type B and their child is type AB. What is Olga's genotype and blood type?

a. IAi, blood type A
b. ii, blood type O
c. IAIA, blood type A
d. IAIB, blood type AB
a

Is it possible for a type O woman to have a type A child?

a. yes
b. no
a

Is it possible for a type B woman to have a type A child?

a. yes
b. no
a

Is it possible for a type O man to have a type AB child?

a. yes
b. no
b

In the pedigree above, squares represent males and circles represent females. Individuals who express a particular trait are represented by shaded figures. Which of the following patterns of inheritance best explains the transmission of the trait?
autosomal dominant

A particular allele can have different effects if it is inherited from a male rather than a female. This phenomenon is known as
genomic imprinting

A karyotype is a
picture display of an individual's chromosomes

Which of the following is not a source of genetic variation in sexually reproducing organisms?
replication of DNA during S phase before mitosis 1

This is an example of a sex-linked condition
muscular dystrophy

This is an example of a disorder caused by a chromosomal deletion error
cri du chat syndrome

which of the following best describes the parents in a test cross?
one individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype

In a certain type of pea plant, the gene for yellow color is dominant to the gene for green color, and the gene for round shape is dominant to the gene for wrinkled shape. If a homozygous dominant play is mated with a homozygous recessive play, what proportion of the plants on the F2 generation will be homozygous recessive?
1/16

Pleiotropy means
single gene with multiple phenotypic effects


Original
An allele on the X chromosome is responsible for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness in humans. The daughter of a woman who has normal vision and marries a man who is color blind. What is the probability that their son will be color blind.
C) 1/2

A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease. Which of the following questions will help the genetic counseler to identify the mans risk for developing the disorder?
B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's

In the pedigree above, circles represent females, squares represent males, and shaded figures represent individuals expressing a trait. The expression of this trait is most likely which of the following?
D) automsomal recessive inheritance
males and females inherit the disorder equally
some affected individuals express the trait, even if neither of their parents express the disorder

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 1:1:1:1 ratio
D) TtRr X ttrr

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 3:3:1:1 phenotype ratio
E) TtRr X ttRr

All offspring are expected to exhibit both dominant traits
C) TTRr X TtRR

This cross is an example of a dihybrid cross in which both parents are heterozygous
B) TtRr X TtRr

The tiny blue eted Mary flow is normally blue - but a white and pink variation exist

Parental F1 F2
Blue X White Blue 192 Blue, 63 White
Blue X Pink Blue 149 Blue 52 Pink
Pink X White Blue 226 Blue, 98 white, 77 Pink

What appears to be true
Flower color is an inherited trait and the F1 and F2 phenotypes od the flowers arrising from the pink and white cross can best be explained by anouther gene product that influences the phenotypic expression

A series of crosses is performed with fruit flies to examine the inheritance of the recessive vg and cn genes
In the first cross a female with wild type eyes and a male with vestigial wings are mated/ All F1 individuals have wild type wings and eyes
Females from the F1 are mated with males who have vestigial wings and eyes (recessive, this is a test cross)

Wild type wings and eyes : 226
Wild type wings, cinnibar eyes : 25
Vestigial wings, wild eyes : 26
Vestigial wings, Cinnebar eyes : 223
D) The genes are located on an autosome (on the same chromosome)

Use table 1 and table 2 to examine the inheritance of flower color (purple and white) and pod shape (inflated and constricted)

Based on the data in table 1, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the f1 generation
Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape

Use table 1 and table 2 to examine the inheritance of flower color (purple and white) and pod shape (inflated and constricted)

In table one, the ratio for phenotypes in the offspring from the test cross with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggests that the genes for flower color and pod shape are located
C) on different chromosomes

Which of the following provides the best justification that may have been used in the computer simulation (Table 2)
B) The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because offspring from the cross of purple flowered and white flowered plants had purple flowers

In Table II, the F1 offspring of the cross between broad leaved, white flowed plants with narrow-leaved, purple flowered plants have a phenotype that differers from that of either parent. However, many test crosses have the smae phenotype as one of the two plants in the parental cross, but relatively few testcross offspring have the same phenotype as the F1 offspring. Which of the following best explains the observation.
A) Recombination between leaf shape and flower color geners reslted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes

A student in a biology class crossed a male Drosophila meangaster having a grey body and long wings with a female D. melongaster having a black boadyt and apterous winfs. The following distibution of traits was observed in the offspring.
D) Genes for the two traits are located on close together on the same chromosome, and crossing over occured between the two gene loci

In the following human pedigree, squares represent males, circles represent females, and shaded symbols indicate individuals affected

One of the affected males from the third generation has a child with a female who is a carrier (this is a recessive, sex linked, genetic disorder).
B) 50%

Phenylkonuria (PKU) is an inheited disease caused by an autosomal recessive allele.
If two individuals who are carriers of PKU hae two children, hat is the probability that neither child will have PKU? Give your answer as a fraction or decimal.
16.5625

In a certain species of flowering plant, the purple allele P is dominant to the yellow allele p. A student performed a crosss between a purple floweing plant and a yellow flowering plant. When planted, the 146 seeds produced matured into 87 plants with purple flowers, and 59 with yellow flowers

Calculate the Chi Square value for the null hypothesis that the purple flowered parent was heterozygous for the flower color gene. Give your answers to the nearest 10th.
5.4


Original
A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news has caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
(A) Were you and your cousin born in the same geographical area?
(B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
(C) Were you in physical contact with a person diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
(D) Were you ever exposed to substances that are suspected of causing Huntington's disease?
(B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?

Over several years, bacteria were isolated from members of a human population and tested for antibiotic resistance. The percent of bacterial isolation that were found to be antibiotic resistant is presented in the graph above for each year of study. Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the information presented in the graph?
(A) The greatest increase in antibiotic resistance occurred from the first year to the third year of the study.
(B) Gene flow in the population occurred at the same rate for the entire duration of the eight-year study.
(C) Because evolution in bacterial populations occurs over millions of years, the results are due to random variation.
(D) Natural selection over multiple generations is favoring antibiotic resistance in the population of bacteria.
(D) Natural selection over multiple generations is favoring antibiotic resistance in the population of bacteria.

Lobe-finned fishes were present in the oceans of the world approximately 400 million years ago. The first tetrapod (vertebrates that had limbs and could move on land) date to about 365 million years ago. One hypothesis states that early tetrapods evolved from lobe-finned fishes. Which of the following is the best plan for testing the hypothesis?
(A) Determining the number of finds found on lobe-fined fishes from different geographical locations.
(B) Measuring the proportion of radioisotopes found in fossils of early tetrapods.
(C) Comparing the arrangements of bones in the fins of lobe-finned fishes and limbs of the earliest tetrapods.
(D) Sequencing DNA isolated from fossils of lobe-finned fishes to determine the size of the genome.
(C) Comparing the arrangements of bones in the fins of lobe-finned fishes and limbs of the earliest tetrapods.

Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
(A) An increase in blood pH due to the accumulation of lactic acid.
(B) No ATP production due to the absence of substrate-level phosphorylation.
(C) A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation.
(D) A decrease in the oxidation of fatty acids due to a shortage of ATP.
(C) A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation.

Prairie dogs are small mammals that live in large colonies in burrows in the ground. Prairie dogs that are near their own relatives when a predator approaches are much more likely yo issue a warning bark than those that are near unrelated prairie dogs. The prairie dogs that hear a warning bark are more likely to hide in their burrows than to remain above ground. However, the prairie dog that gives the warning bark is putting itself at increased risk of being identified and killed by the predator. Which of the following presents the most likely evolutionary explanation for the behaviors described?
(A) The warning bark changes the behavior of the related prairie dogs nearby, allowing the prairie dog's family to have increased survival and reproductive success.
(B) The barking prairie dog chooses to warn other prairie dogs, leading to more prairie dogs living above ground.
(C) The barking prairie dog is alerting unrelated prairie dogs to the predator, so it is not giving any advantage to its own relatives.
(D) The failure of the individual to bark when the surrounded by unrelated prairie dogs ensure survival of the individual.
(A) The warning bark changes the behavior of the related prairie dogs nearby, allowing the prairie dog's family to have increased survival and reproductive success.

One model of a sustainable fisheries practice is for individual fish to be removed from a natural population at a rate equal to the highest possible growth rate of an ideal population. The graph above represents a population of bluefin tuna living along the Atlantic coast. At which labeled point in the graph is the population growth rate the highest?
(A) I
(B) II
(C) III
(D) IV
(C) III

The student analyzed the data from the investigation and concluded that the estimate of the mean of one treatment group was unreliable. Which of the following identifies the treatment group most likely to have provided an unreliable estimate of the mean, and correctly explains why the estimate appears unreliable?
(A) Treatment group II; it has a lower than expected mean absorbance and the largest standard error of the mean.
(B) Treatment group III; it has a higher than expected mean absorbance and the largest standard error of the mean.
(C) Treatment group IV; it has a higher than expected mean absorbance and the smallest standard error of the mean.
(D) Treatment group V; it has a lower than expected mean absorbance and the smallest standard error of the mean.
(A) Treatment group II; it has a lower than expected mean absorbance and the largest standard error of the mean.

Based on the data from the investigation, which of the following is the best scientific question about organisms living in water that is polluted with organic solvents?
(A) Do organisms without pigments have a selective advantage in polluted environments?
(B) Will organisms living in polluted environments exhibit detrimental effects from an increased permeability of their cellular membranes?
(C) Will organic solvents from the environment become incorporated into the cell membranes of organisms living in polluted environments?
(D) Should governments place more stringent restrictions on the release of organic solvents into aquatic ecosystems?
(B) Will organisms living in polluted environments exhibit detrimental effects from an increased permeability of their cellular membranes?

In an experiment, 100 mice were released into a large field to which no other mice had access. Immediately after the release, a representative sample of the mice was captured, and the fur color of each individual in the sample was observed and recorded. The mice were then returned to the field. After twenty years, another representative sample of the mice was captured, and the fur color of each individual in the sample was again recorded. Which of the following best explains the change in the frequency distribution of fur color phenotypes in the mouse population, as shown in the figures above?
(A) The allele for gray fur color is unstable, and over twenty years most of those alleles mutated to become
alleles for black fur.
(B) The field was composed primarily of light-colored soil and little vegetation, affording gray mice protection from predators.
(C) Sexual selection led to increased mating frequency of black and brown versus gray and brown.
(D) The gray mice were hardest to capture and so were underrepresented in the twenty-year sample.
(B) The field was composed primarily of light-colored soil and little vegetation, affording gray mice protection from predators.

Liver cells manufacture glycoproteins, while adipose cells store fat. Which of the following sub cellular structures is likely to be more prominent in liver cells than in adipose cells?
(A) Nucleus
(B) Golgi apparatus
(C) Cytoskeleton
(D) Plasma membrane
(B) Golgi apparatus

Intravenous (IV) solutions administered to patients are normally isotonic. Which of the following is most likely if an IV of distilled water is administered to a patient?
(A) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will shrink as a result of salt moving into the blood.
(B) The liver will secrete additional bile salts into the blood to raise the tonicity of the administered fluid.
(C) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will expand as water moves osmotically into the cells from the blood.
(D) The patient's respiration rate will slow to compensate for the higher levels of circulating blood.
(C) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will expand as water moves osmotically into the cells from the blood.

The diagram above represents a typical rod-shaped bacterium. Which of the following best describes a feature shown in the diagram that is unique to archaea and bacteria?
(A) The organism is surrounded by a cell wall.
(B) The organism contains ribosomes.
(C) The organism does not have a nuclear membrane surrounding its genetic material.
(D) The organism is not capable of making or providing itself with ATP.
(C) The organism does not have a nuclear membrane surrounding its genetic material.

Which of the following best supports the claim that organisms of different domain share a common ancestor?
(A) Photosynthesis occurs in chloroplasts, and the citric acid cycle occurs in mitochondria.
(B) Glycolysis occurs in both prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells.
(C) Introns are present in eukaryotic DNA but not in prokaryotic DNA.
(D) Errors in DNA synthesis provide some of the genetic variation in a population.
(B) Glycolysis occurs in both prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells.

Which of the following best describes how sticklebacks in the same population with identical copies of the Pitx1 gene can still show phenotypic variation in the pelvic spine character?
(A) The Pitx1 gene is carried on different chromosomes in different individuals.
(B) Expression of Pitx1 gene is affected by mutations at ther genetic loci.
(C) The genetic code of the Pitx1 gene is translated differently in males and females.
(D) The sub cellular location of the Pitx1 gene changes when individuals move to a new environment.
(B) Expression of Pitx1 gene is affected by mutations at ther genetic loci.

A mutation that affects Pitx1 gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of the following genetic loci?
(A) Hindlimb enhancer
(B) Pituitary enhancer
(C) Jaw enhancer
(D) Promoter
(D) Promoter

In sticklebacks, which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?
(A) The jaw and a pronounced pelvic spine develop normally because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in both developing tissues.
(B) Neither the jaw nor a pronounced pelvic spine develop normally because there is no Pitx1 gene expression in either developing tissue.
(C) The jaw develops normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does not develop because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing jaw but not in the developing pelvis.
(D) The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pixtl gene is expressed in the develiping pelvis but not in the developing jaw.
(D) The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pixtl gene is expressed in the develiping pelvis but not in the developing jaw.

Which of the following describes a possible selective mechanism to explain why freshwater sticklebacks typically have reduced pelvic spines?
(A) Reduced pelvic spines increase the likelihood of escaping predators in freshwater environments.
(B) Reduced pelvic spines expand the range of foods that can be used as sources of energy in freshwater environments.
(C) Reduced pelvic spines result in males becoming effectively invisible to potential mating partners in freshwater environments.
(D) Reduced pelvic spines allow individual fish to pass through narrow waterways on their way to marine environments.
(A) Reduced pelvic spines increase the likelihood of escaping predators in freshwater environments.

Hydrangea macrophylla is a species of plant with blue or pink flower. Flower color in Hydrangea Macrophylla plants is thought to be determined primarily by soil conditions rather than by inherited differences. Which of the following will provide the most direct evidence that flower color in Hydrangea Macrophylla is due primarily to soil conditions?
(A) Comparing DNA sequence information for Hydrangea Macrophylla to DNA sequence information for a different species of flowering plant.
(B) Performing a genetic cross between a pink-flowered plant and a blue-flowered plant and then determining the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring.
(C) Growing cuttings from the same Hydrangea Macrophylla plant under controlled conditions that vary only with regard to soil pH.
(D) Analyzing fossilized remains of an ancestral species that grew in geographic areas similar to the habitats of modern Hydrangea Macrophylla.
(C) Growing cuttings from the same Hydrangea Macrophylla plant under controlled conditions that vary only with regard to soil pH.

Based on morphological characteristics, the phylogenetic tree above has been developed for species I, II, III and IV. DNA sequencing has recently been completed for a particular gene found in all four species. The sequencing will provide additional info for answering which of the following questions?
(A) Is species I the common ancestor of species II and III?
(B) Does species I contain the greatest number of vestigial structures?
(C) Are species III and IV the most closely related?
(D) Should the positions of species III and IV be reversed?
(C) Are species III and IV the most closely related?

The transmission of information from sensory neurons to interneurons typically involves the
(A) Exchange of electrons between specialized proteins embedded in the plasma membrane of the sensory neuron to the plasma membrane of the interneuron.
(B) Release of chemical messengers into the space between the axon of the sensory neuron and the plasma membrane of the interneuron.
(C) Transfer of a phosphate group from ATP in the sensory neuron to a protein substrate in the interneuron.
(D) Flow of proteins down an electrochemical gradient through a gated channel between the sensory neuron and the interneuron.
(B) Release of chemical messengers into the space between the axon of the sensory neuron and the plasma membrane of the interneuron.

The brain coordinates the circulatory and respiratory systems of the human body. The control of breathing, for example, involves neural pathways among the structures represented in the figure above. One important stimulus in the control of breathing is an increase in blood CO2 concentration, which is detected as a decrease in blood pH. Which of the following best describes the physiological response to an overall increase in cellular respiration in the body?
(A) In response to depleted blood CO2 levels, the pH sensors send signals directly to the rib muscles, resulting in an increase in the rate of CO2 uptake by the lungs and a decrease in CO2 utilization by the brain.
(B) In response to low blood pH, the pH sensors send a signal to the brain, which then sends a signal to the diaphragm, resulting in an increased rate of breathing to help eliminate excess blood CO2.
(C) In response to high blood pH, the pH sensors send a signal directly to the lungs, resulting in a slower rate of breathing, and the lungs send a signal back to the heart once CO2 availability has been restored.
(D) In response to an increased rate of breathing, the rib muscles send a signal to the brain, which then sends a signal to the heart, resulting in a decrease in heart activity and slower flow of blood through the body.
(B) In response to low blood pH, the pH sensors send a signal to the brain, which then sends a signal to the diaphragm, resulting in an increased rate of breathing to help eliminate excess blood CO2.

A group of cells is assayed for DNA content immediately following mitosis and is found to have an average of 8 picograms of DNA per nucleus. How many picograms would be found at the end of S and the end of G2?
A) 8; 8 B) 8; 16 C) 16; 8 D) 16; 16
D

During prophase a homologous pair of chromosomes consists of
A) four chromosomes and two chromatids. B) two chromosomes and two chromatids.
C) two chromosomes and four chromatids. D) one chromosome and two chromatids.
D

Which of the following is a protein maintained at constant levels throughout the cell cycle that requires cyclin to become catalytically active?
A) PDGF B) MPF C) cyclin D) Cdk
D

Independent assortment of chromosomes occurs.
A) The statement is true for mitosis only.
B) The statement is true for meiosis I only.
C) The statement is true for meiosis II only.
D) The statement is true for mitosis and meiosis I.
B

A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news has caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
Were you and your cousin born in the same geographical area?
Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
Were you in physical contact with a person diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
Were you ever exposed to substances that are suspected of causing Huntington's disease?
Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?

The fact that all seven of the pea plant traits studied by Mendel obeyed the principle of independent assortment most probably indicates which of the following?
A) None of the traits obeyed the law of segregation.
B) The diploid number of chromosomes in the pea plants was 7.
C) All of the genes controlling the traits were located on the same chromosome.
D) All of the genes controlling the traits behaved as if they were on different chromosomes.
D

Radish flowers may be red, purple, or white. A cross between a red-flowered plant and a white-flowered plant yields all-purple offspring. The part of the radish we eat may be oval or long, with long being the dominant characteristic. If true-breeding red long radishes are crossed with true-breeding white oval radishes, the F1 will be expected to be which of the following?
A

A man who is an achondroplastic dwarf with normal vision marries a color-blind woman of normal height. The man's father was 6 feet tall, and both the woman's parents were of average height. Achondroplastic dwarfism is autosomal dominant (NOT sex linked), and red-green color blindness is X-linked recessive. How many of their daughters might be expected to be color-blind dwarfs?
A) all B) none C) half D) one out of four
B

Genome
A genome is an organism's complete set of DNA, including all of its genes. Each genome contains all of the information needed to build and maintain that organism. In humans, a copy of the entire genome—more than 3 billion DNA base pairs—is contained in all cells that have a nucleus.

Chromosome
In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure.

Chromosomes are not visible in the cell's nucleus—not even under a microscope—when the cell is not dividing. However, the DNA that makes up chromosomes becomes more tightly packed during cell division and is then visible under a microscope. Most of what researchers know about chromosomes was learned by observing chromosomes during cell division.

Each chromosome has a constriction point called the centromere, which divides the chromosome into two sections, or "arms." The short arm of the chromosome is labeled the "p arm." The long arm of the chromosome is labeled the "q arm." The location of the centromere on each chromosome gives the chromosome its characteristic shape, and can be used to help describe the location of specific genes.

Chromatin
the material of which the chromosomes of organisms other than bacteria (i.e., eukaryotes) are composed. It consists of protein, RNA, and DNA.

Somatic Cells
A somatic cell is generally taken to mean any cell forming the body of an organism.

Somatic cells, by definition, are not germline cells.

In mammals, germline cells are the sperm and ova (also known as "gametes") which fuse during fertilization to produce a cell called a zygote, from which the entire mammalian embryo develops.

Every other cell type in the mammalian body, apart from the sperm and ova, the cells from which they are made (gametocytes) and undifferentiated stem cells, is a somatic cell; internal organs skin, bones, blood and connective tissue are all made up of somatic cells.

JUST REMEMBER ITS NON REPRODUCTIVE AND HAS 2 SETS OF CHROMOSOMES

humans somatic cells have 46 chromosomes

Sister Chromatids
A sister chromatid refers to either of the two identical copies (chromatids) formed by the replication of a single chromosome, with both copies joined together by a common centromere. In other words, a sister chromatid may also be said as 'one-half' of the duplicated chromosome.

Centromer
the point on a chromosome by which it is attached to a spindle fiber during cell division.

Mitosis
the usual method of cell division, characterized typically by the resolving of the chromatin of the nucleus into a threadlike form, which condenses into chromosomes, each of which separates longitudinally into two parts, one part of each chromosome being retained in each of two new cells resulting from the original cell.

Cytokinesis
Cytokinesis is the physical process of cell division, which divides the cytoplasm of a parental cell into two daughter cells. It occurs concurrently with two types of nuclear division called mitosis and meiosis, which occur in animal cells. Mitosis and each of the two meiotic divisions result in two separate nuclei contained within a single cell. Cytokinesis performs an essential process to separate the cell in half and ensure that one nucleus ends up in each daughter cell. Cytokinesis starts during the nuclear division phase called anaphase and continues through telophase. A ring of protein filaments called the contractile ring forms around the equator of the cell just beneath the plasma membrane. The contractile ring shrinks at the equator of the cell, pinching the plasma membrane inward, and forming what is called a cleavage furrow. Eventually, the contractile ring shrinks to the point that there are two separate cells each bound by its own plasma membrane.

Interphase
http://cyberbridge.mcb.harvard.edu/mitosis_4.html

Mitotic phase

Mitotic spindle
The collective term for all the spindle fibers that form during mitosis. It is a spindle-shaped structure that develops outside the nucleus during mitosis. The fibers that constitute the mitotic spindle pull the chromatids apart toward opposite poles.

IN ANAPHASE

Aster
a star-shaped structure formed during division of the nucleus of an animal cell.

Kinetochores
the place on either side of the centromere to which the spindle fibers are attached during cell division.

Metaphase plate

Cleavage
Cell division (like an egg cell)

Cell plate
A disc like structure in the plane of the equator of the spindle that separates the two sets of chromosomes during cytokinesis; also involved in the formation of cell wall between the two daughter cells following cell division.

Genes!
The units of Heredity! or whatever heredity means! Segments of DNA, has a specific locus on each chromosome. One set of chromosomes is inherited by each parent

Asexual Reproduction
One parent produces genetically identical offspring via mitosis

Sexual Reproduction
A mode of reproduction involving the fusion of female gamete (ovum) and male gamete (spermatozoon), which forms a zygote that potentially develops into genetically distinct offspring.

what in even heck is the purpose of cell division???
development of fertilized cell, growth, repair, reproduction.

Cell Cycle
Mitotic (M) phase w/ cytokinesis, Interphase: cell growth copying of chromosomes: three phases: G1 phase, S phase, G2 phase

Blankety Blank!
...

sex chromosome
humans have either X or Y (Female XX male XY) there are 22 chromosomes called autosomes that do not determine sex #roasted

1. Which of the following is the most abundant carbon-containing compound in the atmosphere of the Earth?
(A) Carbon monoxide
(B) Carbon dioxide
(C) Carbon tetrachloride
(D) Ethane
(E) Ozone
B

3. Members of which of the following animal groups were among the first to inhabit land and were ancestors of the reptiles?
(A) Amphibian
(B) Arthropoda
(C) Aves
(D) Mammalian
(E) Echinodermata
A

4. If 2n = 48 for a particular cell, then the chromosome number in each cell after meiosis would be
(A) 96
(B) 48
(C) 24
(D) 12
(E) 6
C

7. The wing of a bat, the flipper of a whale, and the forelimb of a horse appear very different, yet detailed studies reveal the presence of the same basic bone pattern. These structures are examples of
(A) analogous structures
(B) homologous structures
(C) vestigial structures
(D) balanced polymorphism
(E) convergent evolution
B

8. The carbon that makes up organic molecules in plants is derived directly from
(A) combustion of fuels
(B) carbon fixed in photosynthesis
(C) carbon dioxide produced in respiration
(D) carbon in the lithosphere
(E) coal mines
B

9. Which of the following is a correct statement about mutations?
(A) They are a source of variation for evolution.
(B) They drive evolution by creating mutation pressures.
(C) They are irreversible.
(D) They occur in germ cells but not in somatic cells.
(E) They are most often beneficial to the organisms in which they occur.
A

10. A feature of organic compounds NOT found in inorganic compounds is the presence of
(A) ionizing chemical groups
(B) electrons
(C) carbon atoms covalently bonded to each other
(D) oxygen
(E) hydrogen bonds
C

12. The nucleolus functions in the production of
(A) Golgi apparatus
(B) microtubules
(C) mitochondria
(D) ribosomes
(E) endoplasmic reticulum
D

13. All of the following are true statements about meiosis in mammals EXCEPT:
(A) It serves as a factor in bringing about variation among offspring.
(B) It follows DNA replication.
(C) It occurs only in reproductive structures.
(D) It produces cells with the haploid number of chromosomes.
(E) It produces four genetically identical gametes.
E

14. Segregation of alleles does NOT occur in which of the following groups of organisms?
(A) Flowering plants
(B) Insects
(C) Flatworms
(D) Bacteria
(E) Ferns
D

16. Which of the following statements concerning a gene is correct?
(A) A gene can code for a specific protein.
(B) A gene can exist in alternate forms called introns.
(C) A gene undergoes crossing-over during DNA replication.
(D) A gene that is very similar in sequence in a human and in a bacterium is probably a recent mutation.
(E) A gene that is expressed in every offspring of every generation is recessive.
A

17. The system of classification developed by Linnaeus is based primarily on differences in
(A) chemical composition of the genetic material
(B) method of feeding
(C) means of locomotion
(D) location of habitat
(E) organismal structure
E

18. Fats are emulsified by which of the following substances synthesized by the liver?
(A) Cholesterol
(B) Hydrochloric acid
(C) Lipase
(D) Bile salts
(E) Glycerol
D

19. An overlap in the niches of two species will most frequently result in
(A) interspecific cooperation
(B) a hybridization of species
(C) a mutualistic symbiotic relationship
(D) an increase in the biomass
(E) interspecific competition
E

27. In garden peas, a single gene controls stem length. The recessive allele (t) produces short stems when homozygous. The dominant allele (T) produces long stems. A short-stemmed plant is crossed with a heterozygous long-stemmed plant. Which of the following represents the expected phenotypes of the offspring and the ratio in which they will occur?
(A) 3 long-stemmed plants : 1 short-stemmed plant
(B) 1 long-stemmed plant : 1 short-stemmed plant
(C) 1 long-stemmed plant : 3 short-stemmed plants
(D) Long-stemmed plants only
(E) Short-stemmed plants only
B

28. Although the seal and the penguin both have streamlined, fishlike bodies with a layer of insulating fat, they are not closely elated. This similarity results from
(A) convergent evolution
(B) adaptive radiation
(C) homologous evolution
(D) coevolution
(E) parallel evolution
A

33. The O2 released during photosynthesis comes from
(A) CO2
(B) H2O
(C) NADPH
(D) RuBP (RuDP)
(E) C6H12O6
B

34. Which of the following is an important difference between light-dependent and light-independent reactions of photosynthesis?
(A) The light-dependent reactions occur only during the day; the light-independent reactions occur only during the night.
(B) The light-dependent reactions occur in the cytoplasm; the light-independent reactions occur in chloroplasts.
(C) The light-dependent reactions utilize CO2 and H2O; the light-independent reactions produce CO2 and H2O.
(D) The light-dependent reactions depend on the presence of both photosystems I and II; the light-independent reactions require only photosystem I.
(E) The light-dependent reactions product ATP and NADPH; the light-independent reactions use energy stored in ATP and NADPH.
E

37. Which of the following can be used to determine the rate of enzyme-catalyzed reactions?
(A) Rate of disappearance of the enzyme
(B) Rate of disappearance of the substrate
(C) Rate of disappearance of the product
(D) Change in volume of the solution
(E) Increase in activation energy
B

39. Which of the following is probably the best explanation for the fact that Antarctic penguins cannot fly, although there is evidence that millions of years ago their ancestors could do so?
(A) Penguins live on land and feed in the water; therefore they have no need to fly.
(B) The Antarctic home of penguins is flat and barren; therefore there is no place to fly.
(C) Ancestral penguins without large wings were better able to swim and feed in the water; therefore they passed their genes for shorter wing structure on to their offspring.
(D) Ancestral penguins did not use their wings for long periods of time; therefore today's penguins have only tiny, nonfunctional wings.
(E) The cold and wind of Antarctica make flight impossible; therefore penguins that live there have lost the ability to fly.
C

41. The appearance of a fertile, polyploid individual within a population of diploid organisms is a possible source of a new species. If this individual is capable of reproducing to form a new population, scientists would consider this to be an example of
(A) allopatric speciation
(B) sympatric speciation
(C) polygenic inheritance
(D) genetic drift
(E) Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium
B

42. Which of the following is a characteristic of mitochondria and chloroplasts that supports the endosymbiotic theory?
(A) Both have bacteria-like polysaccharide cell walls.
(B) Both can reproduce on their own outside of the cell.
(C) Both contain DNA molecules.
(D) Both contain endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi bodies.
(E) Both contain ribosomes that are identical to ribosomes of the eukaryotic cytoplasm.
C

47. The embryo of which of the following organisms does NOT have an amnion?
(A) a bird
(B) a turtle
(C) a lizard
(D) a fish
(E) a human
D

48. A human cell in prophase of mitosis can be distinguished from a human cell in prophase I of meiosis by the presence of
(A) kinetochores in the mitotic cell
(B) a spindle in the mitotic cell
(C) twice as many chromosomes in the meiotic cell
(D) half as many chromosomes in the meiotic cell
(E) paired homologous chromosomes in the meiotic cell
E

Questions 49-50. In a certain flock of sheep, 4 percent of the population has black wool and 96 percent has white wool. Assume that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.

49. If black wool is a recessive trait, what percentage of the population is heterozygous for this trait?
(A) 4%
(B) 20%
(C) 32%
(D) 64%
(E) 80%
C

Questions 49-50. In a certain flock of sheep, 4 percent of the population has black wool and 96 percent has white wool. Assume that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.

50. What percentage of the population is homozygous for white wool?
(A) 20%
(B) 40%
(C) 64%
(D) 80%
(E) 96%
C

51. Which of the following are characteristic of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells?
(A) Cytoplasm and a well-defined nucleus surrounded by a membrane
(B) Membranous sites of ATP synthesis, Golgi complex, and ribosomes
(C) Mitochondria, nucleus, and ribosomes
(D) Cell wall, several chromosomes, and cytoplasm
(E) Cell membrane, ribosomes, DNA, and RNA
E

53. All of the following statements about a haploid cell in a plant are correct EXCEPT
(A) It may have either an odd or even number of chromosomes.
(B) It may function as a gamete.
(C) It may have been formed as the result of a meiotic division.
(D) It may undergo meiosis to produce gametes.
(E) It may undergo mitosis.
D

54. There is some evidence that interferon may be effective against certain forms of cancer. This finding suggests that some cancers may involve
(A) viruses
(B) bacteria
(C) uric acid deposition
(D) allergic reactions
(E) an overproduction of white blood cells
A

57. Which of the following is a correct statement about the relationship between pH and the hydrogen-ion concentration of a solution?
(A) There are no hydrogen ions present in a solution with a basic pH.
(B) There are no hydrogen ions present in a solution with a neutral pH of 7.0.
(C) The concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution with pH of 7.0 is 100 times as great as that in a solution with pH of 9.0
(D) The concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution with a pH of 5.0 is twice that in a solution with a pH of 3.0.
(E) The concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution with a pH of 4.0 is 400 times as great as that in a solution with a pH of 1.0.
C

58. Carbohydrate-synthesizing reactions of photosynthesis directly require
(A) light
(B) products of the light reactions
(C) darkness
(D) O2 and H2O
(E) Chlorophyll and CO2
B

64. Unlike the cells of flowering plants, the cells of animals are characterized by which of the following?
(A) Mitochondria
(B) A nucleus surrounded by a double membrane
(C) Centrioles
(D) A plasma membrane surrounded by a nonliving cell wall
(E) A single large central vacuole
C

66. Within the cell, many chemical reaction that, by themselves, require energy input (have a positive free-energy change) can occur because the reactions
(A) may be coupled to the hydrolysis of ATP
(B) take place very slowly
(C) take place when the cells are at unusually high temperatures
(D) are catalyzed by enzymes
(E) are aided by various metal ions that act as catalysts
A

Questions 99-101 refer to the following information.

Achondroplastic dwarfism is a dominant genetic trait that causes severe malformation of the skeleton. Homozygotes for this condition are spontaneously aborted (hence, the homozygous condition is lethal) but heterozygotes will develop to be dwarfed.
Matthew has a family history of the condition, although he does not express the trait. Jane is an achondroplastic dwarf. Matthew and Jane are planning a family of several children and want to know the chances of producing a child with achondroplastic dwarfism.

99. The genotypes of Matthew and Jane are best represented as
Matthew Jane

(A) AA Aa
(B) Aa aa
(C) aa aa
(D) aa Aa
(E) Aa Aa
D

Questions 99-101 refer to the following information.

Achondroplastic dwarfism is a dominant genetic trait that causes severe malformation of the skeleton. Homozygotes for this condition are spontaneously aborted (hence, the homozygous condition is lethal) but heterozygotes will develop to be dwarfed.
Matthew has a family history of the condition, although he does not express the trait. Jane is an achondroplastic dwarf. Matthew and Jane are planning a family of several children and want to know the chances of producing a child with achondroplastic dwarfism.

100. The probability that Matthew and Jane's first child will be an achondroplastic dwarf is
(A) 0%
(B) 25%
(C) 50%
(D) 75%
(E) 100%
C

Questions 99-101 refer to the following information.

Achondroplastic dwarfism is a dominant genetic trait that causes severe malformation of the skeleton. Homozygotes for this condition are spontaneously aborted (hence, the homozygous condition is lethal) but heterozygotes will develop to be dwarfed.
Matthew has a family history of the condition, although he does not express the trait. Jane is an achondroplastic dwarf. Matthew and Jane are planning a family of several children and want to know the chances of producing a child with achondroplastic dwarfism.

101. If three children are born to Matthew and Jane, what are the chances that the first two children will not express the trait but that the third child will be an achondroplastic dwarf?
(A) 5/8
(B) 4/8
(C) 3/8
(D) 1/8
(E) 1/16
D

Questions 106-108

A male fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings.
These F1 flies were test crossed with purple-eyed vestigial-winged flies. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.

F2 Generation

125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

106. If in the F1 and F2 generations the same characteristics appeared in both males and females, it would be safe to assume that these traits for eye color and wing length
(A) are sex-linked
(B) vary in dominance according to sex
(C) are sex-influenced characteristics
(D) are autosomal characteristics
(E) follow the Mendelian rule of independent assortment
D

Questions 106-108

A male fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings.
These F1 flies were test crossed with purple-eyed vestigial-winged flies. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.

F2 Generation

125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

107. In the F2 generation, the results are best explained by the fact that
(A) the test cross with the F1 flies resulted in sterile offspring
(B) these genes for eye color and wing shape do not pass through the F1 generation
(C) these genes for eye color and wing shape are found on the same chromosome
(D) crossing-over decreases variability
(E) the genes are sex-linked
C

Questions 106-108

A male fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) with red eyes and long wings was mated with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings.
These F1 flies were test crossed with purple-eyed vestigial-winged flies. Their offspring, the F2 generation, appeared as indicated below.

F2 Generation

125 red eyes, long wings
124 purple eyes, vestigial wings
18 purple eyes, long wings
16 red eyes, vestigial wings
283 total

108. If a single locus controls wing shape, then the alleles for this gene act as
(A) Dominant-recessive alleles,
(B) Incomplete-dominance alleles
(C) Codominant alleles
(D) Multiple alleles
(E) Variable alleles
A

Questions 115-116 refer to the chart below.

mRNA Codons Amino Acids

AGA arginine
GGA glycine
AGC serine
GCA alanine
CAG glutamine

115. ... glutamine-glutamine-glutamine ...
...serine-serine-serine...
Which of the following messenger RNA sequences could code for both of the two amino acid sequences above, simply by a shift in the reading frame?
(A) ...AGCAGCAGCAGC...
(B) ...AGUAGUAGUAGU...
(C) ...CAACAACAACAA...
(D) ...GCUGCUGCUGCU...
(E) ...GCAAGCGCAAGC...
A

Questions 115-116 refer to the chart below.

mRNA Codons Amino Acids

AGA arginine
GGA glycine
AGC serine
GCA alanine
CAG glutamine

116. glycine-serine-glycine

Which of the following DNA strands will code for the amino acid sequence shown above?
(A) ACTCCTTCT
(B) TCTCCGTCG
(C) CCGTCGACT
(D) CCTCCGTCG
(E) CCTTCGCCT
E

Which of the following best describes an intimate ecological association in which an organism benefits from living on or within a host, but which generally has a negative effect on that host?
Parasitism

While studying a cell with the electron microscope, a scientist notes the following: numerous ribosomes, a well-developed endoplasmic reticulum, chloroplasts, and a cell wall. Which of the following could be the source of this cell?
A plant

If a segment of DNA is 5'-TAC GAT TAG-3', the RNA that results from the transcription will be
3'-AUG CUA AUC-5

Regarding mitosis and cytokinesis, one difference between higher plants and animals is that in plants
a cell plate begins to form at telophase, whereas in animals a cleavage furrow is initiated at that stage

A common feature of starch and glycogen is that molecules of both
are polymers of glucose

Which of the following is the best description of neural transmission across a mammalian synaptic gap?
Neural impulses cause the release of chemicals that diffuse across the gap.

Which of the following statements is true about the Krebs cycle and the Calvin cycle?
They both are carried out by enzymes located within an organelle matrix

The bonding of two amino acid molecules to form a larger molecule requires
the release of a water molecule

The relative location of four genes on a chromosome can be mapped from the following data on crossover frequencies (B and D 5% - C and A 15% - A and B 30% - C and B 45% - C and D 50%) Which of the following represents the relative positions of these four genes on the chromosome?
CABD

When hydrogen ions are pumped out of the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and into the space between the inner and outer membranes, the result is
the creation of a proton gradient

Once transcribed, eukaryotic mRNA typically undergoes substantial alteration that results primarily from
excision of introns

The function of water in photosynthesis is to
supply electrons in the light-dependent reactions

Found in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells
Ribosome

Possesses a microtubular structure similar in form to a basal body
Centriole

Assembles ribosomal precursors
Nucleolus

Contains hydrolytic enzymes associated with the intracellular digestion of Macromolecule
Lysosome

The optimum concentrations of hormones for promoting maximum tobacco cell growth are
27 mg/liter of IAA and 0 .64 mg/liter of kinetin

The purpose of the experiment is primarily to determine the
response of tobacco cells in tissue culture to combinations of IAA and kinetin

The single colony found within the clear ring in plate I is most the descendants of a bacterial cell that
contained information conferring resistance to Aureomycin

Which of the following would most likely be observed in plate II after 24 hours
There would not be a clear ring around either disc A or disc P.

In cross II, the genotype of the dark, short-haired parent is
CcBb

Which of the following is probably the genotype of the dark, short-haired parent? In cross I?
CCBB

Which of the following correctly describes the relationship of the dark-coat-color allele to the albino?
It is dominant.

What is the most reasonable conclusion of the fact that the frequency of b has not changed over time?
The two phenotypes are equally adaptive under laboratory conditions.

What is the frequency of allele b in the gene pool?
0 .70

What proportion of the population is heterozygous (Bb) for this trait?
0 .42

The rate of oxygen consumption in germinating pea seeds at 26ºC is
0 .05 mL / min

Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data?
In pea seeds an increase in temperature results in an increase in oxygen consumption.

Which of the following explains why fewer light beetles than dark beetles were recaptured in habitat 4?
Predation

If all insectivorous birds and remaining beetles were removed from habitat 2 and 500 of each were added back estimate the number of dark-brown beetles that would be expected to be recaptured in one more week?
120

Which of the following can be inferred from the data in the table?
Insectivorous birds are predators of this species of ground beetle.

HIV causes
AIDS

Major Restrictive Enzyme
Bacteria cuts up the DNA of the virus

DNA sequence AAGTTC transcription to RNA
UUCAAG

Site of translation (DNA to RNA)
Ribosomes

Location of genes from crossover frequency
CABD, Greater frequency, farther apart. More chance of crossover

Fermentation
NADH is oxidized, oxygen is taken to make ATP

Water surface tension is accounted by
Hydrogen bonds, keeps things together

Oxygen crosses a plasma membrane
Passive transport, does not require energy and moves freely

Difference between DNA and RNA
DNA codes genetic information. RNA uses that to synthesize proteins that carry out cellular functions

Functional difference between 5' and 3'
DNA replication only starts at the 5' end. 5'end matches with 3' of the other strand

Property of water most important to all organisms
Polarity aids in reaction with hydrogen bonding - surface tension and tree climbing

In A -> B + C + Heat
Reactant has more entropy than the product. Exergonic reaction - heat is released.

Capsid
Protein shell enclosing a viral genome

Allele in white flower is ___ to Allele in red flowers making pink flowers
Incomplete dominance

Difference between tissues and organ systems
Organ system composed of organs composed of tissues

pH 9 is ___ more ___ than pH 5
10-4 more acidic or 104 more basic

FADH2 and NADH
Enters the electron transport chain

Chromosomes line the cell equator in
Metaphase

Asexual reproduction
One individual

Phage is a
Virus that can infect bacteria

Fruit flies with different type of wings
Homeotic gene

Which of the following is not true of tumor viruses?
The may be transferred between animals by phage

The herpes virus
Acts as a provirus when its DNA becomes incorporated into the host cell's genome

A tumor-suppressor gene could cause the onset of cancer if
Both (A. both alleles have mutations that decrease the activity of the gene product) and (D. a pro-oncogene has also become oncogene) have happened

T2 phage is grown with radioactive phosphorus and then allowed to infect E.coli. The culture is blended to separate the viral coats from the bacterial cells and centrifuged. Which of the following best describes the expected results of such an experiment?
Viral DNA is labeled; radioactivity is found in the pellet

What are telomeres and what do they do
Both (A. ever-shortening tips of chromosomes that may stop signal cells to stop dividing) and (B. highly repetitive sequences at tips of chromosomes that protect the lagging strand during replication) are correct

Which of the following genomes has been completely sequenced?
All of the above (nematode, human, E.coli & yeast, and fruit fly)

Segregation of alleles does NOT occur in which of the following groups of organisms:
a) Flowering plants
b) Insects
c) Flatworms
d) Bacteria
e) Ferns
d) Bacteria

Nine percent of a population is homozygous recessive (aa) at a certain locus. Assuming that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following is closest to the frequency of the recessive allele (a):
a)j .09
b) .27
c) .30
d) .90
e) .97
c) .30

During mitosis, which of the following normally occurs:
a) Homologous chromosomes pair.
b) replicated chromosomes line up on the equatorial plate
c) tetrads form
d) unreplicated chromosomes become oriented in the center of the cell
e) maternal and paternal chromatids pair
b) replicated chromosomes line up on the equatorial plate

AIDS is caused by the retrovius HIV, which DNA complementary to the viral RNA using:
a) RNA polymerase
b) beta-galactosidase
c) RNA synthase
d) ATPase
e) reverse transcriptase
e) reverse transcriptase

Which of the following is true of mitosis:
a) It is also known as cytokinesis
b) It maintains the same chromosome number in the daughter cells as in the parent cell
c) It is the last phase of interphase
d) It regulates the transfer of genetic information from one daughter cell to another
e) It moves homologous chromosomes to opposite poles
b) It maintains the same chromosome number in the daughter cells as in the parent cell

Which of the following can be diagnosed by examining a kayotype of an individual's white blood cells:
a) Sickle cell anemia
b) Alzeimer disease
c) Down syndrome
d) Cystic fibrosis
e) Duchenne muscular dystrophy
c) down syndrome

Coat color in mice is determined by genes at two loci. When black mice from a particular population mate, they produce offspring in the following ratios: 9 black : 3
brown : 4 white. These results suggest that white coat color is expressed as a result of
a) dominance
b) incomplete dominance
c) codominance
d) a sex-linked trait
e) epistasis
e) epistasis

Which of the following is true about the production of polar bodies in humans:
a) It increases genetic variability
b) It provides the maximum amount of cytoplasm and resources to the ovum
c) It occurs in male and female vertebrates during meiosis I
d) It is completed prior to fertilization
e) It results in nondisjunction
b) It provides the maximum amount of cytoplasm and resources to the ovum

A spermocyte produces the following four sperm cells (n+1)(n+1)(n-1)(n-1). These cells are the result of nondisjunction during which of the following phases:
a) Interphase (G2 or G2)
b) Interphase (S)
c) Mitosis
d) Meiosis I
e) Meiosis II
b) interphase (S)

In sheep, eye color is controlled by a single gene with 2 alleles . When a homozygous brown-eyed sheep is crossed with a homozygous green-eyed sheep, blue eyed offspring are produced. If the blue-eyed sheep are mated with each other, what percent of their offspring will most likely have brown eyes:
a) 0%
b) 25%
c) 50%
d) 75%
e) 100%
b) 25%

Assume that genes A and B are not linked. If the probability of allele A in a gamete is 1/2 and the probability of allele B in a gamete is 1/2, then the probability that both A and B are in the same gamete is:
a) 1/2 X 1/2
b) 1/2 + 1/2
c) 1/2 / 1/2
d) (square root) 1/2
e) (absolute value of) 1/2-1/2
a) 1/2 X 1/2

A couple has 5 children, all sons. If the woman gives birth to a sixth child, what is the probability that the sixth child will be a son:
a) 5/6
b) 1/2
c) 1/5
d) 1/6
e) 1/64
b) 1/2

In garden peas, a single gene controls stem length. The recessive allele (t) produces short stems when homozygous. The dominant allele (T) produces long stems. A short-stemmed plant is crossed with a heterozygous long-stemmed plant. Which of the following represents the expected phenotypes of the offspring and the ratio in which they will occur:
a) 3 long-stemmed plants : 1 short-stemmed plant
b) 1 long-stemmed plant : 1 short-stemmed plant
c) 1 long-stemmed plant : 3 short-stemmed plant
d) Long-stemmed plants only
e) Short-stemmed plants only
b) 1 long-stemmed plant : 1 short stemmed plant

Which of the following statements concerning a gene is correct:
a) a gene can code for a specific protein
b) a gene can exist in alternate forms called introns
c) a gene undergoes crossing-over during DNA replication
d) a gene that is very similar in sequence in a human and in a bacterium is probably a recent mutation
e) a gene that is expressed in every offspring of every generation is recessive
a) a gene can code for a specific protein

To observe the process of mitosis in plan root cells, a biologist should examine the plant's:
a) root hairs
b) Casparian strip
c) root cap
d) zone of maturation
e) apical meristem
e) apical meristem

Embryonic induction is best illustrated by which of the following:
a) Formation of the lens in the ectoderm after contact with the underlying optic cup
b) Replacement of cartilage by bone
c) Lysosomal action on the degenerating tail of a tadpole
d) Development of the amnion surrounding the embryo
e) Development of the mesoderm into the notochord
a) formation of the lens in the ectoderm after contact with the underlying optic cup

All the following are true statements about meiosis in mammals EXCEPT:
a) It serves as a factor in bringing about variation among offspring
b) It follows DNA replication
c) It occurs only in reproductive structures
d) It produces cells with the haploid number of chromosomes
e) It produces four genetically identical gametes
e) It produces four genetically identical gametes

A human cell in prophase of mitosis can be distinguished from a human cell in prophase I of meiosis by the presence of:
a) kinetochores in the mitotic cell
b) a spindle in the mitotic cell
c) twice as many chromosomes in the meiotic cell
d) half as many chromosomes in the meiotic cell
e) paired homologous chromosomes in the meiotic cell
e) paired homologous chromosomes in the meiotic cell

Which of the following statements about plasmids is correct:
a) They are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum
b) They are found only in eukaryotic cells
c) They are composed of RNA
d) They are larger in size than bacteria chromosomes
e) They are self-replicating
e) they are self-replicating

DNA replication can be described as:
a) semiconservative
b) conservative
c) degenerative
d) dispersive
e) radical
a) semiconservative

In fruit flies, vermilion eyes are a sex-linked recessive characteristic. If a vermilion-eyed female is crossed with a wild-type male, what proportion of the male offspring should have vermilion eyes:
a) 0%
b) 25%
c) 50%
d) 75%
e) 100%
e) 100%

The relative location of four genes on a chromosome can be mapped from the following data on crossover frequencies
Genes Frequency of Crossover
B and D 5%
C and A 15%
A and B 30%
C and B 45%
C and D 50%
Which of the following represents the relative positions of these four genes on the chromosome:
a) ABCD
b) ADCB
c) CABD
d) CBAD
e) DBCA
c) CABD

In order for a bacterium to produce a eukaryotic protein, which of the following must first be isolated from a eukaryotic cell prior to cloning:
a) The protein's primary RNA transcript from the nucleus
b) The protein's mRNA from the cytoplasm
c) The protein from the rough endoplasmic reticulum
d) The introns from the segment of DNA that codes for the protein
e) The segments of DNA that control transcription for this protein
b) The protein's mRNA from the cytoplasm

The enzyme that is found in retroviruses and that is required for the synthesis of DNA from RNA is:
a) DNA polymerase III
b) RNA polymerase
c) restriction endonuclease
d) reverse transcription
e) dehydrogenase
d) reverse transcriptase

In a population that is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, the frequency of a recessive allele for a certain hereditary trait is 0.20. What percentage of the individuals in the next generation would be expected to show the dominant trait:
a) 8%
b) 16%
c) 32%
d) 64%
e) 96%
e) 96%

GTAGTAGGT
What would be the sequence of bases of an mRNA molecule that was transcribed from the sequence of DNA bases shown above:
a) GTAGTAGGT
b) CAUCAUCCA
c) UCGUCGUUC
d) AUGAUGAAU
e) CATCATCCA
b) CAUCAUCCA

ABCDEF . . . . . . ABDCEF
A rearrangement in the linear sequence of genes as shown in the diagram above is known as:
a) duplication
b) deletion
c) inversion
d) polyploidy
e) translocation
c) inversion

In corn, the trait for tall plants (T) is dominant to the trait for dwarf plants (t) and the trait for colored kernels (C) is dominant to the trait for white kernels (c). In a particular cross of corn plants, the probability of an offspring being tall is 1/2 and the probability of a kernel being colored is 3/4. Which of the following most probably represents the parental genotypes:
a) TtCc x ttCc
b) TtCc x TtCc
c) TtCc x ttcc
d) TTCc x ttCc
e) TTCc x TtCC
a) TtCc x ttCc

If 2n=48 for a particular cell, then the chromosome number in each cell after meiosis would be:
a) 96
b) 48
c) 24
d) 12
e) 6
c) 24

Actinomycin D is an antibiotic drug that inhibits protein synthesis by blocking transciption. In some cells, the application of the drug does NOT affect the synthesis of certain proteins. Which of the following best explains such an occurrence:
a) Not all proteins need tRNA molecules for their synthesis
b) The proteins that are made are using mRNA synthesized before application of the drug
c) Nuclear proteins do not require the cytoplasmic machinery of ribosomes
d) DNA transcription is not necessary for protein synthesis
e) Protein synthesis is blocked in the cytoplasm at the ribosome level
b) The proteins that are made are using mRNA synthesized before application of the drug

During development, individual cells of the same organism begin to produce different proteins because:
a) the cells have different numbers of chromosomes
b) not all cells can synthesize proteins
c) specific genes are activated in the cells
d) The cells have different kinds and amounts of DNA
e) genes are permanently lost as somatic cells differentiate
c) specific genes are activated in the cells

A human genetic defect that affects the ability to metabolize a particular amino acid is:
a) phenylketonuria
b) hemophilia
c) sickle cell anemia
d) down's syndrome
e) turner's syndrome
a) phenylketonuria

The use of the isotope isotope 32P as a tracer element in the study of invasion and lysis of bacteria by bacteriophage viruses has shown that:
a) ATP from bacteriophages is identical to ATP found in eukaryotic cells
b) bacteriophage protein enters the bacteria through the cell wall
c) bacteriophage nucleic acids enter bacteria prior to lysis
d) 32P accelerates the lytic effect of bacteriophage infection
e) 32P in an inactive form enters the bacterial genome as part of a plasmid
c) bacteriophage nucleic acids enter bacteria prior to lysis

If red hair, blue eyes, and freckles were consistently inherited together, the most likely
explanation would be that
a) these traits are recessive characteristics
b) both parents have red hair, blue eyes, and freckles
c) the genes for these traits are linked on the same chromosome
d) gene duplications have occurred
e) these traits are dominant to others
c) the genes for these traits are linked on the same chromosome

According to the Jacob-Monod model of the lac operon, the regulator gene does which of the following:
a) Specifies the amino acid sequence of the enzyme
b) Controls the activity of histones
c) determines whether promoter genes will be translated
d) Directs the synthesis of a repressor
e) produces corepressor substances
d) directs the synthesis of a repressor

Human identical twins develop when:
a) two identical eggs are fertilized by two different sperm
b) a single egg is fertilized by two sperm
c) two different eggs are fertilized by two different sperm
d) the embryo splits and each portion continues to develop
e) a diploid egg is fertilized by a diploid ovum
d) the embryo splits and each portion continues to develop

In DNA replication, DNA polymerase catalyzes the reaction in which:
a) the double helix unwinds
b) the sugar-phosphate bonds of each strand are broken
c) a phosphate group is added to the 3' carbon or 5' carbon of ribose
d) a nucleotide with a base complementary to the base on the template strand is added to the new DNA strand
e) the two nucleotide strands come together and intertwine to form a double helix
d) a nucleotide with a base complementary to the base on the template strand is added to the new DNA strand

the working of the lac operon is important for which of the following reasons:
a) It represents a principal means by which genes are regulated in prokaryotes
b) It represents a principal means by which genes are regulated in eukaryotes
c) It illustrates the complexities of rRNA transcription
d) It provided the first clues to how DNA replication is controlled during the cell cycle
e) The understanding of it led to the development of an economical means for the biological production of lactose
a) It represents a principal means by which genes are regulated in prokaryotes

A form of vitamin D resistant rickets, known as hypophosphatemia, is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait. If a male with hypophosphatemia marries a normal female, which of the following predictions concerning their potential progeny would be true:
a) All of their sons would inherit the disease
b) All of their daughters would inherit the disease
c) About 50% of their sons would inherit the disease
d) About 50% of their daughters would inherit the disease
e) None of their daughters would inherit the disease
b) all of their daughters would inherit the disease

A diploid cell has 3 pairs of homologous chromosomes designated J1/J2, K1,K2, and L1/L2. Which of the following represents a probable chromosome complement is a haploid cell formed by meiosis:
a) J1 and K1
b) J1 and J2
c) J2, K1, and L2
d) J1, J1, K2, and K2
e) J1, J2, K1, K2, L1, and L2
c) J2, K1, and L2

Which of the following are found in viruses:
a) Chloroplasts
b) Ribosomes
c) Mitochondria
d) Nucleic Acids
e) Golgi Bodies
d) nucleic acids

The primary value of a specific type of backcross known as a testcross is to:
a) determine whether a trait is really hereditary
b) permit detection of recessive genes
c) reveal cases of blending inheritance
d) reveal remote ancestors
e) reveal sex-linked inheritance
b) permit detection of recessive genes

A represents the dominant allele and a represents the recessive allele of a pair. If in 1000 offspring, 500 are aa and 500 are some other genotype which of the following are most probably genotypes of the two parents:
a) Aa and Aa
b) Aa and aa
c) AA and Aa
d) AA and aa
e) aa and aa
b) Aa and aa

A child has blood type A and the mother has blood type B. The father must have which of the following
blood types:
a) AB only
b) Either AB or B
c) Either AB or O
d) Either AB or A
e) AB or A or O
d) either AB or A

A child has blood type A and the mother has blood type B. If the father has blood type AB, which of the following statements is correct about the mother:
a) She contributes an IB allele, which is recessive to the father's IA allele
b) She contributes an i allele, which is recessive to the father's IA allele
c) She contributes an IB allele, which is codominant to the father's IA allele
d) She contributes an i allele, which is codominant to the father's IB allele
e) She is homozygous for the IB allele
b) She contributes an i allele, which is recessibe to the father's IA allele

A tobacco plant can be made to express a gene from fireflies, resulting in the emission of light. Which of the following is the basis for this phenomenon:
a) Chloroplasts can be made to produce light if firefly proteins are injected into plant cells
b) Fireflies and tobacco plants share a recent common ancestor
c) Fireflies and tobacco plants are infected b the same kinds of bacteria
d) Transcription and translation are fundamentally similar in both fireflies and tobacco plants
e) Most enzymes in fireflies have the same amino acid sequence as the enzymes in tobacco plants
d) transcription and translation are fundamentally similar in both fireflies and tobacco plants

In peas, the trait for tall plants is dominant (T) and the trait for short plants is recessive (t). The trait for yellow seeds is dominant (Y) an the trait for green seeds is recessive (y). A cross between two plants results in 296 tall yellow plants and 104 tall green plants. Which of the following are most likely to be the genotypes of the parents:
a) TTYY x TTYY
b) TTyy x TTYy
c) TtYy x TtYy
d) TtYy x TTYy
e) TtYY x Ttyy
d) TtYy x TTYy

Nuclear division in which the chromosome number is reduced from 2n to n is part of the life cycle of all the following organisms EXCEPT:
a) molds
b) ferns
c) insects
d) bacteria
e) protozoans
d) bacteria

Which of the following exists as RNA surrounded by a protein coat:
a) Retrovirus
b) Prion
c) Prokaryote
d) Spirochete
e) Streptococcus
a) retrovirus

In animals, all of the following are associated with embryonic development EXCEPT:
a) migration of cells to specific areas
b) formation of germ layers
c) activation of all the genes in each cell
d) inductive tissue interactions
e) cell division at a relatively rapid rate
c) activation of all the genes in each cell

Which of the following occurs during mitosis but NOT during meiosis I:
a) The chromosomes are pulled to opposite poles of the spindle apparatus
b) The chromatids of each chromosome are separated
c) The nuclear envelope breaks down
d) Both synapsis and crossing-over take place
e) The diploid number of chromosomes is reduced to the haploid number
b) The chromatids of each chromosome are separated

Which of the following best describes the parents in a testcross:
a) One individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype
b) Both individuals are heterozygous
c) Both individuals have the dominant phenotype
d) Both individuals have the recessive phenotype
e) Both individuals have an unknown phenotype
a) One individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype

Which of the following best describes the cells that result from the process of meiosis in mammals:
a) They are diploid
b) They can be used to repair injuries
c) They are genetically different from the parent cell
d) They are genetically identical to all the other cells in the body
e) They are identical to each other
c) they are genetically different from each other

Which of the following best describes why the polymerase chain reaction is a standard technique used in molecular biology research:
a) It uses inexpensive materials and produces perfect results
b) It can purify specific sections of a DNA molecule
c) It can produce large amounts of specific DNA sequences
d) It can duplicate the entire human genome
e) It can produce large amounts of mRNA
c) It can produce large amounts of specific DNA sequences

Which of the following terms refers to both the movement of a ribosome along a piece of mRNA and the movement of a piece of one chromosome to another chromosome:
a) Transduction
b) Transgenesis
c) Transformation
d) Translocation
e) Transplantation
d) Translocation

Most cells that have become transformed into cancer cells have which of the following characteristics when compared to normal, healthy cells:
a) Shorter cell cycle
b) More carefully regulated rates of cell division
c) Lower rates of mitosis
d) Higher rates of protein translation
e) Identical DNA
a) Shorter cell cycle

Gibberellic acid stimulates the cells of germinating grass seeds to produce mRNA molecules that code for hydrolytic enzymes. In this case the role of gibberellic acid can best be described as that of:
a) a regulator of gene activity
b) a stimulator of hydrolase secretion
c) a stimulator of DNA replication
d) an allosteric activator of hydrolase
e) an activator of translation
a) a regulator of gene activity

Which of the following is the most likely explanation for a high rate of crossing over between two genes:
a) The two genes are far apart on the same chromosome
b) The two genes are both located near the centromere
c) The two genes are sex linked
d) The two genes code for the same protein
e) The two genes are on different chromosomes
a) The two genes are far apart on the same chromosome

In humans, red-green color blindness is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a man and woman produce a color-blind son, which of the following MUST be true:
a) The father is color-blind
b) Both parents carry the allele for color blindness
c) Neither parent carries the allele for color blindness
d) The father carries the allele for color blindness
e) The mother carries the allele for color blindness
e) the mother carries the allele for color blindness

Part of a chromosome breaks away and then reattaches to the same chromosome in reverse orientation:
a) Crossing-over
b) Inversion
c) Translocation
d) Nondisjuntion
e) Deletion
b) Inversion

Part of a chromosome breaks away and attaches to a nonhomologous chromosome:
a) Crossing-over
b) Inversion
c) Translocation
d) Nondisjuntion
e) Deletion
c) translocation

Part of a chromosome lacking a centromere breaks away and does not reattach to another chromosome:
a) Crossing-over
b) Inversion
c) Translocation
d) Nondisjuntion
e) Deletion
e) deletion

Tetrads fail to separate correctly during anaphase in this process:
a) Crossing-over
b) Inversion
c) Translocation
d) Nondisjuntion
e) Deletion
d) nondisjunction

Probability that the genotype Aa will be produced by the parents Aa x Aa:
A) 0
B) 1/16
C) 1/4
D) 1/2
E) 3/4
d) 1/2

Probability that the genotype ccdd will be produced by the parents CcDd x Cc Dd:
A) 0
B) 1/16
C) 1/4
D) 1/2
E) 3/4
b) 1/16

Probability that the genotype Rr will be produced by the parents Rr x rr:
A) 0
B) 1/16
C) 1/4
D) 1/2
E) 3/4
d) 1/2

Probability that the genotype TTSs will be produced by the parents TTSs x TtSS:
A) 0
B) 1/16
C) 1/4
D) 1/2
E) 3/4
c) 1/4

What would be the chromatid number of a cell in late Prophase I of meiosis:
A) 8
B) 16
C) 32
D) 64
E) 128
d) 64

How many chromosomes would each daughter cell have at the end of Telophase II of meiosis:
A) 8
B) 16
C) 32
D) 64
E) 128
b) 16

Galactosemia is a simple, inherited, autosomal, recessibe trait. A normal couple has a child affected with galactosemia. For each of the following situations, select from the list above the appropriate probability.

The probability that the father of the galactosemic child is heterozygous for the recessive allele:
A) 1/16
B) 1/4
C) 1/2
D) 9/16
E) 1
e) 1

Galactosemia is a simple, inherited, autosomal, recessibe trait. A normal couple has a child affected with galactosemia. For each of the following situations, select from the list above the appropriate probability.

The probability that the next two children will both be affected with galactosemia:
A) 1/16
B) 1/4
C) 1/2
D) 9/16
E) 1
a) 1/16

Process in which a protein is assembled at a ribosome:
A) transcription
B) translation
C) transformation
D) replication
E) reverse transcription
b) translation

Process in which naked DNA is taken up by a bacterial or yeast cell:
A) transcription
B) translation
C) transformation
D) replication
E) reverse transcription
c) transformation

Process that results in the production of cDNA from an RNA molecule:
A) transcription
B) translation
C) transformation
D) replication
E) reverse transcription
e) reverse transcription

Process in which RNA is produced by using a DNA template:
A) transcription
B) translation
C) transformation
D) replication
E) reverse transcription
a) transcription

Enzymes used in the synthesis of mRNA:
A) DNA ligase
B) DNA polymerase
C) RNA polymerase
D) Restriction enzyme
E) Reverse transcriptase
c) RNA polymerase

Enzyme used during replication to attach to Okazaki fragments to each other:
A) DNA ligase
B) DNA polymerase
C) RNA polymerase
D) Restriction enzyme
E) Reverse transcriptase
a) DNA ligase

Enzyme found in retroviruses that produce DNA from an RNA template:
A) DNA ligase
B) DNA polymerase
C) RNA polymerase
D) Restriction enzyme
E) Reverse transcriptase
e) reverse transcriptase

Enzyme used to position nucleotides during DNA replication:
A) DNA ligase
B) DNA polymerase
C) RNA polymerase
D) Restriction enzyme
E) Reverse transcriptase
b) DNA polymerase

Associated with inactivated DNA:
A) Methylation
B) Enhancer activity
C) RNA capping
D) RNA spliceosome activity
E) Reverse transcriptase
a) methylation

Protects RNA from hydrolysis:
A) Methylation
B) Enhancer activity
C) RNA capping
D) RNA spliceosome activity
E) Reverse transcriptase
c) RNA capping

Selectively removes RNA segments:
A) Methylation
B) Enhancer activity
C) RNA capping
D) RNA spliceosome activity
E) Reverse transcriptase
d) RNA spliceosome activity

Increases RNA polymerase activity:
A) Methylation
B) Enhancer activity
C) RNA capping
D) RNA spliceosome activity
E) Reverse transcriptase
b) Enhancer activity

Activated by directly binding to GTP:
A) Adenylate cyclase
B) G-protein
C) Carrier Protein
D) cAMP
E) Ion channel receptor protein
b) G-protein

Catalyzes the formation of cytosolic second messenger molecules:
A) Adenylate cyclase
B) G-protein
C) Carrier Protein
D) cAMP
E) Ion channel receptor protein
a) adenylate cyclase

Enhances the transport of lipophilic signals in the blood:
A) Adenylate cyclase
B) G-protein
C) Carrier Protein
D) cAMP
E) Ion channel receptor protein
c) Carrier Protein

Serves as an intracellular second-messenger molecule:
A) Adenylate cyclase
B) G-protein
C) Carrier Protein
D) cAMP
E) Ion channel receptor protein
d) Ion channel receptor protein


Original
From the cross CCSS x ccss, what is the probability of having an offspring that is CcSs?
1

From the cross CcSS x CcSs, what is the probability of having an offspring that is ccss?
1/16

From the cross CcSs x CcSs what is the probability of having an offspring that is normal for both traits
9/16

Which sex genotype is not a result of nondisjunction(normal sex chromosomes)
XX

An organism has 3 independently assorting traits AaBbCc. What fraction of its gametes will contain the recessive genes abc?
1/8

In cross II, the genotype of the dark, short-haired partner is
CcBb

Which of the following is probably the genotype of the dark, short-haired parent in cross I?
CCBB

Which of the following correctly describes the relationship of the dark-coat-color allele to the albino condition
it is dominant

The tiny blue-eyed Mary flower is often one of the first flowers seen in the spring......
flower color is an inherited trait, and the F1 and F2 phenotypes of the flowers arising from the pink and white cross can best be explained by another gene

A student in a biology class crossed a male Drosophila melanogaster having a gray body and long wings with a female D. melanogaster having a black body and apterous wings. The following distribution of traits was observed in the offspring.
genes for the two traits are located close together on the same chromosomes, and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci

The data below demonstrate the frequency of tasters and nonstarters of a certain compound in four populations that are in hardy-Weinberg....
C 3-215-500-715

Which of the following occurs in all species of living organisms and may lead to an increase in genetic variation
Mutations in the genome

One of the affected males from the third generation has a child with a female who is a carrier. For the pedigree shown above, which of the following best expresses the probability that the couple's first son will be affected with the disorder?
50%

Based on the data in Table I, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the F1 generation?
inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape

In Table I, the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring from the testcross with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggests that the genes for flower color and pod shape are located
on different chromosomes

Which of the following provides the best justification for an assumption that might have been used in the computer simulation?
the purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and w.f. plants had purple flowers

In Table II, the F1 offspring of the cross between broad-leaved, white-flowered plants with narrow-leaved, purple-flowered plants have a phenotype that differs from that of either parent. However, many testcross offspring have the same phenotype as one of the two plants in the parental cross, but relatively few testcross offspring have the same phenotype as the F1 offspring. Which of the following best explains the observation?
recombination between the leaf-shape and flower-color genes resulted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes.

A series of crosses is performed with fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) to examine inheritance of the genes vestigial (vg) and cinnabar (cn).
The two genes are linked on an autosome

Gregor Mendel's pioneering genetic experiments with pea plants occurred before the discovery of the structure and function of chromosomes.
Most offspring of a given cross have a combination of traits that is identical to that of either one parent or the other

A blue-flowered African violet of unknown ancestry self-pollinated and produces 50 seeds.
Pink flower color is a trait recessive to blue flower color.

Eye color in a particular strain of fly is influenced by one gene with two alleles....
The eye-color gene is likely autosomal because males and female have similar phenotype ratios.

Based on the information presented, which of the following best explains the difference in phenotype between Tay-Sachs carriers and homozygous recessive individuals?
Tay-Sachs carriers synthesize an essential enzyme that homozygous recessive individuals cannot synthesize.

A researcher claims that Tay-Sachs carriers are protected against the infectious disease tuberculosis (t).
The incidence of T in subpopulation II is lower that the incidence of T in the general population.

Which of he following is an ethical question about Tay-Sachs disease that cannot be answered using scientific methods?
Should genetic testing be required before individuals in subpopulation I are advised to not have children.

Which of the following pedigrees most accurately represents a family with a history of Tay-Sachs disease?
B. blank circle and square

C
Within a forest ecosystem, there is a large amount of diversity among members of a warbler species. Of the following stages of meiosis illustrated for a typical cell, which contributes most to diversity among the warblers?

A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase.
Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?

(A) A receptor mutation results in activation of a cell-division pathway in the absence of the appropriate ligand.
(B) A mutation results in the loss of the ability to produce a tumor-suppressor protein.
(C) A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase.
(D) At the anaphase checkpoint, separation of chromatids occurs without all centromeres

Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules, and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?


(A) Homologous chromosomes (each with two sister chromatids) will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
(B) Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell.
(C) The nuclear envelope will break down, and the spindle will begin to form.
(D) The chromatin will decondense, and the daughter cell will enter interphase.

During meiosis, crossing over leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes
The process depicted in the image above is best summarized by which of the following descriptions?

(A) During the synthesis phase of the cell cycle, DNA molecules replicate to generate identical daughter cells.
(B) Centromeres align specific gene sequences of homologous chromosomes during mitotic divisions.
(C) The spindle apparatus attaches at chiasma during metaphase of mitosis.
(D) During meiosis, crossing over leads to recombination of alleles between homologous chromosomes.

condensation of chromatin in preparation of nuclear division in both cells
If chemical signals in the cytoplasm control the progression of a cell to the M phase of the cell cycle, then fusion of a cell in G1 with a cell in early M phase would most likely result in the

(D) DNA synthesis
The cells found in the region of the graph labeled Q are involved in what major cell cycle activity?

G1
The region on the graph labeled P represents cells in what stage of the cell cycle?

R only
Cells in which region of the graph are ready to enter mitosis as the next step in the cell cycle?

The first polar body is produced in meiosis I, when the pairs of homologous chromosomes are separated into two cells. In meiosis II, the second polar body is generated when sister chromatids are separated into two cells to obtain the haploid number of chromosomes in the egg.
Which is the best explanation of the role of polar bodies during the formation of an egg?

(C) The diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation.
The diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true?

(C) The organism does not have a nuclear membrane surrounding its genetic material.
The diagram above represents a typical rod-shaped bacterium. Which of the following best describes a feature shown in the diagram that is unique to archaea and bacteria?

It has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes.
Which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure?

Golgi apparatus
Liver cells manufacture glycoproteins, while adipose cells store fat. Which of the following subcellular structures is likely to be more prominent in liver cells than in adipose cells?

Eukaryotes have organelles that allow for compartmentalization of cellular processes, which increases the efficiency of those processes.
Which of the following best describes an advantage that eukaryote organisms have over prokaryote organisms?

(B) To synthesize and isolate proteins for secretion or for use in the cell
The figure below illustrates a eukaryotic cell. Which of the following best describes how the three structures indicated by the arrows work together?

C
A pathogenic bacterium has been engulfed by a phagocytic cell as part of the nonspecific (innate) immune response. Which of the following illustrations best represents the response?

(C) crosses the endoplasmic reticulum membrane as it is translated, then moves to the Golgi apparatus, then to vesicles from which it is secreted
The figure above shows a series of microscope images taken over time of ovalbumin production in chick oviduct cells in response to stimulation with estrogen. The ovalbumin protein was detected using a fluorescent dye as shown by the white areas in the time-lapse sequence.

The microscope images indicate that ovalbumin

(B) An ancestral cell most likely engulfed an aerobic prokaryote in a relationship that proved beneficial for both cells.
Mitochondria are found in most eukaryotic cells and contain their own DNA and ribosomes that are similar to those typical of many prokaryotic cells. Which of the following statements is justified by these observations?

Golgi complex
A cell is treated with a drug that prevents the formation of new lysosomes. The cell continues to transcribe the genes that code for the hydrolytic enzymes that are normally found in lysosomes and continues to translate the mRNAs for those proteins on membrane-bound ribosomes.

The hydrolytic enzymes are most likely to accumulate in which of the following cellular structures?

Structure Y is the location where proteins are synthesized.
The figure above represents a rough endoplasmic reticulum. Which of the following best describes the role of the structure labeled Y?

A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation
Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?

The rate of proton pumping across the inner mitochondrial membrane is lower in the sample without oxygen
Two nutrient solutions are maintained at the same pH. Actively respiring mitochondria are isolated and placed into each of the two solutions. Oxygen gas is bubbled into one solution. The other solution is depleted of available oxygen. Which of the following best explains why ATP production is greater in the tube with oxygen than in the tube without oxygen?

Cellular respiration
Which of the following is the best explanation for the pattern of change in mass of the organisms over time?

A substance that removes carbon dioxide gas
During aerobic cellular respiration, oxygen gas is consumed at the same rate as carbon dioxide gas is produced. In order to provide accurate volumetric measurements of oxygen gas consumption, the experimental setup should include which of the following?

The mice at 10°C had a higher rate of ATP production than the mice at 25°C.
According to the data, the mice at 10°C demonstrated greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than did the mice at 25°C. This is most likely explained by which of the following statements?

mode of internal temperature regulation
According to the data, the crickets at 25°C have greater oxygen consumption per gram of tissue than do the crickets at 10°C. This trend in oxygen consumption is the opposite of that in the mice. The difference in trends in oxygen consumption among crickets and mice is due to their

Is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?
Which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?

The inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the intermembrane space and the matrix.
The figure above shows an organelle typically found in eukaryotic cells. Which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?

(B) How is ATP used in the formation of 3-carbon carbohydrates?
Which of the following questions is most relevant to understanding the Calvin cycle?

Photosynthesis produces more oxygen than is consumed by respiration during the day.
What most likely causes the trends in oxygen concentration shown in the graph above?

(b.) Comparing the observed results for sample 2 and sample 3
Which of the following provides the best indication that light is required for the activation of electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?

(a.) Calculating the rate of change of the absorbance for sample 1
(b.) Comparing the observed results for sample 2 and sample 3
(c.) Repeating the entire experimental procedure at night
(d.) Including multiple trials for all the samples

(d.) Light from a lamp can substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes.
Which of the following can be reasonably concluded from the experimental results?

(a.) Chloroplasts must be suspended in a buffer solution to function properly.
(b.) The optimal temperature for activation of electron transfer is 25°C.
(c.) DCPIP inhibits biochemical reactions in suspended chloroplasts.
(d.) Light from a lamp can substitute for sunlight in stimulating chloroplast processes.

(c.) The change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.
If an additional sample containing the chloroplast/DCPIP solution was placed at a distance of 90 cm from the lamp, which of the following predictions would be most consistent with the experimental results?

(a.) The concentration of DCPIP in the solution will increase exponentially.
(b.) The absorbance at 60 minutes will be roughly equal to 1.4.
(c.) The change in absorbance over time in the solution will be less than that of the other samples.
(d.) The temperature of the solution will exceed 75°C.

(a.) Availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP depends on light energy.
Which of the following descriptions of photosynthesis best explains the results of the experiment?

(a.) Availability of electrons for transfer to DCPIP depends on light energy.
(b.) Movement of DCPIP across chloroplast membranes occurs in less than 60 minutes.
(c.) Chlorophyll molecules degrade rapidly in the presence of DCPIP.
(d.) DCPIP can only be used to measure photosynthetic activity at low light levels.

(b.) What wavelength of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
Which of the following scientific questions could be investigated using a similar experimental setup?

(a.) How much carbon dioxide is required by a plant cell to produce one molecule of glucose?
(b.) What wavelength of light best activates electron transfer reactions in chloroplasts?
(c.) Which molecule in chloroplasts accepts activated electrons from DCPIP during photosynthesis?
(d.) Are the same genes that are expressed in chloroplasts also expressed in mitochondria?

(B) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.
If the input water is labeled with a radioactive isotope of oxygen, 18O, then the oxygen gas released as the reaction proceeds is also labeled with 18O. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?

(A) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, the hydrogen atoms combine with the CO2, and oxygen gas is released.
(B) During the light reactions of photosynthesis, water is split, removing electrons and protons, and oxygen gas is released.
(C) During the Calvin cycle, water is split, regenerating NADPH from NADP+, and oxygen gas is released.
(D) During the Calvin cycle, water is split, the hydrogen atoms are added to intermediates of sugar synthesis, and oxygen gas is released.

(C) The excited electrons are replaced when an enzyme splits a water molecule into two electrons, an oxygen atom, and two hydrogen ions.
Which statement explains the process that occurs immediately after the electrons are excited in photosystem II?

(A) The excited electrons are accepted by the terminal electron acceptor NADP+ and used to generate ATP.
(B) The excited electrons release energy in the form of ATP as they are transported to another protein complex through a series of redox reactions.
(C) The excited electrons are replaced when an enzyme splits a water molecule into two electrons, an oxygen atom, and two hydrogen ions.
(D) The excited electrons are added to ADP+ to produce ATP, which is used to drive the reactions needed to produce sugar from carbon dioxide in the Calvin cycle.

1.5 meters
According to the data above, what is the deepest water level at which light penetration is expected to be at least 200 μEin m-2 s-1? Give your answer to the nearest tenth of a meter.

(B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news has caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?

(A) Were you and your cousin born in the same geographical area?
(B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
(C) Were you in physical contact with a person diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
(D) Were you ever exposed to substances that are suspected of being mutagens?

(A) Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape.
Based on the data in Table I, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the F1 generation?

(A) Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape.
(B) The inflated-pod offspring in the F1 generation are homozygous.
(C) Constricted pod shape typically arises from a new mutation in the F1 generation.
(D) The constricted-pod offspring are carriers for the inflated pod shape allele.

(C) on different chromosomes
In Table I, the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring from the testcross with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggests that the genes for flower color and pod shape are located

(A) close together on the same autosome
(B) on the X chromosome
(C) on different chromosomes
(D) on a mitochondrial chromosome

(B) The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and white- flowered plants had purple flowers.
Which of the following provides the best justification for an assumption that might have been used in the computer simulation (Table II)?

(A) The broad allele is recessive to the narrow allele because broad leaves appear in every generation.
(B) The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and white- flowered plants had purple flowers.
(C) The narrow allele is codominant with the purple allele because the purple-flower trait and the narrow-leaf trait segregate together.
(D) The white allele is dominant to both the broad and narrow alleles because plants with either type of leaf shape can have white flowers.

(D) The allele for blue is an X-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2.
The data above represent the results of three different crosses involving the inheritance of a gene that determines whether a certain organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?

(A) The allele for white is an autosomal dominant allele because a 1:1 phenotype ratio of blue to white among both sexes is observed in cross 3.
(B) The allele for blue is an autosomal dominant allele because an approximate 3:1 phenotype ratio of blue to white is observed in cross 1.
(C) The allele for white is an X-linked dominant allele because no white females are produced in cross 1.
(D) The allele for blue is an X-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2.

(A) The alleles for body color and wing shape assort independently, as predicted by Mendel's laws.
In Drosophila melanogaster the allele for wild-type tan body color (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for black body color (b). Similarly, the allele for wild-type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wing phenotype (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the expected and observed results are shown. Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?

(A) The alleles for body color and wing shape assort independently, as predicted by Mendel's laws.
(B) The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.
(C) The traits of body color show complete dominance over the traits of wing shape.
(D) The observed variations in body color and wing shape are detectable in males but not in females.

(C) maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a
mother's offspring
The pedigree suggests that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on mitochondrial DNA, because

(A) mitochondrial genes are not heritable
(B) mitochondrial mutations cannot produce dominant traits
(C) maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a
mother's offspring
(D) mitochondrial DNA is circular, whereas chromosomal
DNA is linear

(D) Rr XtXt × Rr XTY
Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye has two alleles: a dominant allele (R) that results in red eyes and a recessive allele (r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex-linked gene that controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T) that allows for expression of the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for expression of the colored pigments. Individuals without a T allele have white eyes regardless of the alleles of other eye-color genes.

Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed female and a red-eyed male?

(A) Tt XRXR × tt XrY
(B) Tt XrXr × tt XRY
(C) RR XTXT × Rr XTY
(D) Rr XtXt × Rr XTY

Expression of the Pitx1 gene is affected by mutations at other genetic loci.
Which of the following best describes how sticklebacks in the same population with identical copies of the Pitx1 gene can still show phenotypic variation in the pelvic spine character?

(A) The Pitx1 gene is carried on different chromosomes in different individuals.
(B) Expression of the Pitx1 gene is affected by mutations at other genetic loci.
(C) The genetic code of the Pitx1 gene is translated differently in males and females.
(D) The subcellular location of the Pitx1 gene changes when individuals move to a new environment.

Promoter
A mutation that affects Pitx1 gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of the following genetic loci?

(A) Hindlimb enhancer
(B) Pituitary enhancer
(C) Jaw enhancer
(D) Promoter

The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing pelvis but not in the developing jaw.
In sticklebacks, which of the following is most likely to occur if the jaw enhancer is disabled instead of the hindlimb enhancer?

(A) The jaw and a pronounced pelvic spine develop normally because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in both developing tissues.
(B) Neither the jaw nor a pronounced pelvic spine develop normally because there is no Pitx1 gene expression in either developing tissue.
(C) The jaw develops normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does not develop because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing jaw but not in the developing pelvis.
(D) The jaw does not develop normally, but a pronounced pelvic spine does develop because the Pitx1 gene is expressed in the developing pelvis but not in the developing jaw.

(D) In the presence of tryptophan, the trpR gene is inactive, preventing the production of the repressor that blocks expression of the operon.
The Trp operon is a coordinately regulated group of genes (trpA-trpE) that are required for tryptophan biosynthesis in E. coli. Based on the figure above, which of the following correctly describes the regulation of the Trp operon?

(A) In the absence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.
(B) In the presence of tryptophan, the repressor is active and binds to the Trp operator, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing the operon.
(C) In the absence of tryptophan, the trpR gene is inactive, preventing the production of the repressor that blocks expression of the operon.
(D) In the presence of tryptophan, the trpR gene is inactive, preventing the production of the repressor that blocks expression of the operon.

The activator is a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that is present in some tissues but not in other
The figure above depicts the DNA-protein complex that is assembled at the transcriptional start site of gene X when the expression of gene X is activated in liver cells. Previous studies have shown that gene X is never expressed in nerve cells. Based on the diagram, which of the following most likely contributes to the specific expression pattern of gene X ?

(A) Expression of gene X produces large amounts of tRNA but undetectable amounts of mRNA.
(B) The general transcription factors inhibit the activation of gene X in liver cells by blocking the activator from
(C) The activator is a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that is present in some tissues but not in other
(D) The enhancer is a unique DNA segment that is added to the nuclear DNA of some cells of an organism during the process of mitotic cell division but not other cells.

B
Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme -galactosidase. The gene encoding -galactosidase, lacZ, is part of a coordinately regulated operon containing other genes required for lactose utilization.

Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized? (The legend below defines the shapes of the molecules illustrated in the options.)

Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.
Which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?

(A) Expression of the structural genes will be repressed, even in the presence of lactose.
(B) Beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose.
(C) RNA polymerase will attach at the Plac locus, but transcription will be blocked.
(D) The operator locus will code for a different protein and thereby prevent transcription of the structural gene.

(C) Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?

(A) The breakdown products of lactose block cell division.
(B) Diffusion of lactose across the plasma membrane would stop in the presence of lactose.
(C) Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.
(D) Binding of DNA by the repressor would increase in the presence of lactose.

(D) The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.
Which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?

(A) Expression of the lac gene requires lactose.
(B) RNA polymerase is rapidly degraded by the product of the lacP locus.
(C) The repressor binds to DNA only when the cellular concentration of glucose is low.
(D) The lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available.

(A) Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein GFP will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?

(A) Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.
(B) Beta-galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light.
(C) Ultraviolet light will cause a bond to form between glucose and galactose monomers.
(D) Ultraviolet light will cause a duplication of the lac operon.

A
Which of the following correctly illustrates a dipeptide and an amino acid in the optimal position to form a tripeptide?

B
A culture of Spirogyra (an autotrophic alga) is maintained in a water solution containing dissolved carbon dioxide and a source of phosphates but lacking nitrogen compounds. A researcher determines the rates of synthesis of several organic compounds found in the Spirogyra before and after several weeks in the water solution. Which of the following graphs best illustrates a likely result of the experiment?

(B) 14C-labeled CO2, because atmospheric carbon is fixed to carbohydrates by photosynthesis
To test the hypothesis that a particular plant synthesizes storage lipids by using glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate from photosynthesis, a researcher plans to use radiolabeled precursors to track the molecules through the biosynthetic pathway. Which of the following radiolabeled precursors is most appropriate for the researcher to use?

(A) 15N-labeled N2, because atmospheric nitrogen is fixed to amino acids by photosynthesis
(B) 14C-labeled CO2, because atmospheric carbon is fixed to carbohydrates by photosynthesis
(C) 35S-labeled methionine, because amino acids are incorporated into lipids during photosynthesis
(D) 32P-labeled phosphate, because lipids are stored in plants as phospholipids

(D) Interactions between amino acids present in the polypeptide
The tertiary structure and function of a polypeptide is principally determined by the

(A) Length of the polypeptide
(B) Number of nucleotides present in the polypeptide
(C) Repeated units of glycerol making up the polypeptide
(D) Interactions between amino acids present in the polypeptide

(A) All properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules
Sickle-cell anemia results from a point mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation results in the replacement of an amino acid that has a hydrophilic R-group with an amino acid that has a hydrophobic R-group on the exterior of the hemoglobin protein. Such a mutation would most likely result in altered

(A) All properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules
(B) DNA structure as a result of abnormal hydrogen bonding between nitrogenous bases
(C) fatty acid structure as a result of changes in ionic interactions between adjacent fatty acid chains
(D) protein secondary structure as a result of abnormal hydrophobic interactions between R-groups in the backbone of the protein

(B) Nitrogen, because it is an essential element of amino acids
A plant has stunted growth and yellowing leaves because it is unable to synthesize key proteins due to a nutrient deficiency. In which nutrient is the plant most likely deficient?

(A) Carbon, because it is an essential element in all organic molecules
(B) Nitrogen, because it is an essential element of amino acids
(C) Oxygen, because it is an essential element in both nucleic acids and proteins
(D) Phosphorus, because it is an essential element of nucleic acids

(D) A nucleic acid.
Based on the data in the table, the unknown molecule should be classified as which type of molecule?

(A) A carbohydrate.
(B) A protein.
(C) A fatty acid.
(D) A nucleic acid.

(B) This is a dehydration synthesis reaction because a hydrogen atom is removed from one amino acid and a hydroxyl group is removed from the other amino acid in order to form the dipeptide.
Which statement best explains this reaction?

(A) This is a hydrolysis reaction because a water molecule is produced when the amino acids bond to form the dipeptide.
(B) This is a dehydration synthesis reaction because a hydrogen atom is removed from one amino acid and a hydroxyl group is removed from the other amino acid in order to form the dipeptide.
(C) This is a dehydration synthesis reaction because the hydroxyl group in the water molecule donates an electron to one of the amino acids, which is used to form the dipeptide.
(D) This is a hydrolysis reaction because a water molecule is used to fuse two amino acids into a dipeptide.

(B) The nitrogen (N2) gas and ammonia (NH3) gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids.
Two groups of students attempted to re-create the primitive atmospheric conditions of early Earth using the apparatus represented below. Each group ran the experiment with different gas mixtures in the apparatus.

Which of the following statements best justifies the claim that the conditions in at least one of the experiments could generate the molecular building blocks essential for life?

(A) The carbon dioxide (CO2) gas and water (H2O) vapor in experiment 1 could react spontaneously to produce the phospholipids required by the first life-forms.
(B) The nitrogen (N2) gas and ammonia (NH3) gas in experiment 1 could provide the elemental nitrogen required for the formation of amino acids.
(C) The sulfur dioxide (SO2) gas in experiment 2 could donate the excited electrons required to drive the process of photosynthesis.
(D) The methane (CH4) gas in experiment 2 could act as the electron acceptor required to complete the process of cellular respiration.

(C) DNA
Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria. In an experiment, bacteriophages were labeled with either radioactive phosphorus or radioactive sulfur. The labeled bacteriophages were incubated with bacteria for a brief amount of time and then removed. The infected bacteria cells were found to contain significant amounts of radioactive phosphorus but not radioactive sulfur.

Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells? (LO 3.2, EK 3.A.1)

(A) Simple carbohydrate
(B) Amino acid
(C) DNA
(D) Polypeptide

(A) Does the addition of an enzyme reduce the activation energy required for a reaction?
Which of the following questions can best be answered by the diagram?

(A) Does the addition of an enzyme reduce the activation energy required for a reaction?
(B) Does the addition of an enzyme result in the formation of covalent bonds?
(C) Does the addition of an enzyme produce a greater amount of products?
(D) Does the addition of an enzyme change the pathway for the reaction?

(D) Both samples are energy-releasing reactions, but the entropy in sample A is greater because ΔG is more negative than in sample B.
Which statement best explains the data?

(A) Both samples are endergonic, but sample A shows a greater increase in entropy because ΔG is more negative than in sample B.
(B) Both samples are energy-capturing reactions, but the total energy in sample A is greater because ΔG is more negative than in sample B.
(C) Both samples are exergonic, but sample A shows a greater decrease in entropy because ΔG is more negative than in sample B.
(D) Both samples are energy-releasing reactions, but the entropy in sample A is greater because ΔG is more negative than in sample B.

C
Which of the following diagrams depicts the rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction from low substrate concentrations to saturating substrate concentrations?

(B) II only
Enzymes with their highest activity at an alkaline (basic) pH are represented by which of the following graphs?

(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) I and III only

(d.) I, II , and III only
Graphs representing enzymes sensitive to changes in pH include which of the following?

(a.) I only
(b.) IV only
(c.) II and III only
(d.) I, II , and III only

(a.) pH affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme
The most likely explanation for the results shown in Graph I is that

(a.) pH affects the shape of the active site of the enzyme
(b.) the enzyme has a quaternary structure
(c.) the enzyme has disulfide bonds
(d.) pH affects the primary structure of the enzyme

(D) The higher substrate concentrations in the more concentrated solutions speeded the reaction
Which of the following best describes why the disks rose to the surface faster in the more concentrated hydrogen peroxide solutions?

(A) There was more enzyme present in the more concentrated solutions
(B) A greater amount of heat was generated in the more concentrated solutions
(C) The more concentrated solutions lowered the activation energy of the reaction
(D) The higher substrate concentrations in the more concentrated solutions speeded the reaction

(A) Place a catalase-soaked disk in a beaker of water
Which of the following experimental designs should the students use as a control for the experiment?

(A) Place a catalase-soaked disk in a beaker of water
(B) Poke the floating disks back down to the bottom of the beaker and retime the rise of the disks
(C) Shake the beakers during the time disks are rising
(D) Dip the disks in the 5% solution before putting them in any other solution

(B) To prevent the breakdown of the enzyme
Which of the following best describes why ice was used during this experiment?

(A) To increase the activity of the enzyme
(B) To prevent the breakdown of the enzyme
(C) To slow the catalase molecules to increase the probability of contact with the hydrogen peroxide molecules
(D) To increase the size of the active site on the enzyme

about 12 times more active

Natural selection over multiple generations is favoring antibiotic resistance in the population of bacteria
Over several years, bacteria were isolated from members of a human population and tested for antibiotic resistance. The percent of bacterial isolates that were found to be antibiotic resistant is presented in the graph above for each year of the study. Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the information presented in the graph?

The warning bark changes the behavior of the related prairie dogs nearby, allowing the prairie dog's family to have increased survival and reproductive success
Prairie dogs are small mammals that live in large colonies in burrows in the ground. Prairie dogs that are near their own relatives when a predator approaches are much more likely to issue a warning bark than those that are near unrelated prairie dogs. The prairie dogs that hear a warning bark are more likely to hide in their burrows than to remain above ground. However, the prairie dog that gives the warning bark is putting itself at increased risk of being identified and killed by the predator.

Which of the following presents the most likely evolutionary explanation for the behaviors described?

The field was composed primarily of light-colored soil and little vegetation, affording gray mice protection from predators
A group of mice was released into a large field to which no other mice had access. Immediately after the release, a representative sample of the mice was captured, and the fur color of each individual in the sample was observed and recorded. The mice were then returned to the field. After twenty years, another representative sample of the mice was captured, and the fur color of each individual in the sample was again recorded. Which of the following best explains the change in the frequency distribution of fur color phenotypes in the mouse population, as shown in the figures above?

The beak size in a large number of finches was measured every year from 1981 to 1987.
A biologist spent many years researching the rate of evolutionary change in the finch populations of a group of islands. It was determined that the average beak size (both length and mass) of finches in a certain population increased dramatically during an intense drought between 1981 and 1987. During the drought, there was a reduction in the number of plants producing thin-walled seeds.

Which of the following procedures was most likely followed to determine the change in beak size?

Finches with bigger beaks are better able to crack thick-walled seeds and produce more surviving offspring.
A biologist spent many years researching the rate of evolutionary change in the finch populations of a group of islands. It was determined that the average beak size (both length and mass) of finches in a certain population increased dramatically during an intense drought between 1981 and 1987. During the drought, there was a reduction in the number of plants producing thin-walled seeds.

Which of the following statements might best explain the increase in average beak size in the finch population during the drought?

The end of the drought
A biologist spent many years researching the rate of evolutionary change in the finch populations of a group of islands. It was determined that the average beak size (both length and mass) of finches in a certain population increased dramatically during an intense drought between 1981 and 1987. During the drought, there was a reduction in the number of plants producing thin-walled seeds.

The biologist discovered that from 1988 to 1993, the average beak size declined to pre-1981 levels. The reversal in beak size from 1988 to 1993 was most likely related to which of the following events?

Natural selection favors DDT-resistant mosquitoes that are already present in a population when DDT exposure occurs.
The pesticide DDT was widely used in the 1940s as a method of insect control. In the late 1950s the first DDT-resistant mosquitoes were discovered, and eventually DDT-resistant mosquitoes were found globally. When DDT is used now, the development of DDT resistance in mosquito populations occurs in months rather than years.

Which of the following best explains the observations concerning DDT resistance in mosquitoes?

The coloration in the population shifted toward more darker-colored beetles, as in diagram IV. The lighter-colored beetles were found more easily by the predators than were the darker-colored beetles

Betta Z, because it fertilized the most eggs

After many generations, the offspring of the introduced guppies will mature at an older age and larger size because of selective pressure from the new predator.
Evolutionary biologists have observed variation in the average age and size of mature individuals in a population of small freshwater guppies. Guppies found in pools with pike cichlids—a predator fish that preys primarily on larger guppies—reproduce at a young age and are small at maturity. Guppies found in pools with killifish—a different predator fish that preys primarily on smaller guppies—reproduce at an older age and are larger at maturity.

Which of the following predicts the most likely outcome of moving a population of guppies from a pool with pike cichlids to a pool with killifish? (LO 1.5, EK 1.A.2)

1,133
The TAS2R38 gene encodes a receptor protein that influences the ability to taste bitterness. The gene has two alleles: a dominant, wild-type allele that enables an individual (taster) to taste bitterness and a recessive, mutant allele that interferes with the ability of an individual (nontaster) to taste bitterness.

In a sample of 2,400 people, 1,482 were found to have the dominant (taster) phenotype. Assuming that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, approximately how many individuals in the sample are expected to be heterozygous for TAS2R38? (LO 1.6, EA 1.A.3)

The frequency of the Ellis-van Creveld allele is 0.0447 in the isolated population and 0.0026 in the general population, which suggests that genetic drift has occurred in the isolated population
Ellis-van Creveld syndrome is a recessive genetic disorder that includes the characteristics of short stature and extra fingers or toes. In the general population, this syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 150,000 live births. In a particular isolated population, however, the incidence of this syndrome among live births is 1 in 500.

Assume that both the isolated population and the general population are in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium with respect to this syndrome. Which of the following best describes the difference between the frequency of the allele that causes the syndrome in the general population and the frequency of the allele in the isolated population?

The reduced population will likely have allelic frequencies that are different from the initial population.

C

Genetic drift has occurred in population 1.

They will be maintained at the same frequency.
If a population is at Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which of the following can be predicted for the recessive alleles in the population?

.35
In a population of certain frogs in which the allele for brown skin is dominant to the allele for green skin, a drought leads to selection against green-skinned frogs. When the drought ends, 12 percent of the remaining frogs exhibit the green-skin phenotype. If the population is now in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, what will be the frequency of the green-skin allele in the next generation? Provide your answer to the nearest hundredth.

.11

035 (NOT SURE)

√.45

The HbA DNA contains a recognition site for the Mst II restriction enzyme.
The restriction endonuclease Mst II recognizes the sequence 5′ CCT(N)AG (where N = any nucleotide) and cuts DNA at that site, producing separate fragments. Which of the following best explains the banding patterns exhibited in Figure 1?

The basic molecular structure is a helix.
Rosalind Franklin's x-ray diffraction images taken in the 1950s most directly support which of the following claims about DNA?

Proteases and RNases to rule out protein and RNA as the transforming factors
In 1944 Avery, MacLeod, and McCarty performed transformation experiments using live, harmless bacteria and extracts from virulent bacteria treated with various enzymes. Which of the following enzymes were used and why?

D

B

Segment 1 would become denatured at a lower temperature than would segment 2 because A-T base pairs have two hydrogen bonds whereas G-C base pairs have three.

The mother cannot be the biological parent of all three children
The banding patterns of the DNA fragments reveal that

Using a different restriction enzyme to treat the DNA of each individual
All of the following are likely steps that would lead to the production of these gel patterns EXCEPT

DNA is made up of four different types of nucleotides, whereas proteins are made up of 20 different types of amino acids, enabling proteins to create many more chemical messengers than DNA can.
In the 1930s, most scientists agreed that proteins are the genetic material in cells. Which statement would scientists from the 1930s most likely cite as the strongest evidence that proteins, and not DNA, store genetic material in cells

Single-stranded DNA
A student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition.

35% cytosine
20% thymine
28% adenine
17% guanine

Which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?

No change to the protein/// A premature stop codon or an amino acid with different biochemical characteristics
Comparison of DNA sequences in Table II suggests that a functional GULO gene in lemurs can have a G, C, or T at position 21 but only a G at position 22. Which of the following pairs of predictions is most helpful in explaining the discrepancy?

A substitution at position 21 would result in //// A substitution at position 22 would result in

The deletion of the single nucleotide causes a frame shift, changing the primary structure downstream of the mutation and resulting in a nonfunctional protein
Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutation at nucleotide position 7 in the GULO gene of humans?

RNA samples could be separated by size using agarose gel electrophoresis and incubated with labeled single-stranded DNA molecules that are complementary to the ferritin mRNA
Which of the following biotechnology approaches could be used to identify ferritin mRNA in a sample of total cellular RNA?

(A) RNA samples could be directly cloned into a DNA plasmid, grown in bacteria, and tested for the ability to bind iron.
(B) RNA samples could be separated by size using agarose gel electrophoresis and incubated with labeled single-stranded DNA molecules that are complementary to the ferritin mRNA.
(C) RNA samples could be converted to protein and subsequently cut with a restriction endonuclease that recognizes DNA sequences.
(D) RNA samples could be examined under a high-power microscope to visually identify the ferritin mRNA.

Translation of ferritin mRNA is stimulated by iron.
In individuals with iron-rich diets, intracellular levels of iron are higher than in individuals with iron-poor diets. Which of the following best explains how organism

(A) Translation of ferritin mRNA is inhibited in the presence of iron.
(B) Translation of ferritin mRNA is stimulated by iron.
(C) Ferritin protein is more stable in the presence of iron.
(D) Ferritin protein is less stable in the presence of iron.

Iron increases ribosome binding to ferritin mRNA
The data can best be used to support which of the following claims about the mechanism for regulating ferritin gene expression?

(A) Iron increases ribosome binding to ferritin mRNA.
(B) Iron causes the ferritin mRNA to be degraded.
(C) Iron increases the effect of actinomycin D on RNA polymerase.
(D) Iron decreases the ability of ferritin mRNA to bind to
ribosomes.

A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
Sickle-cell anemia is associated with a mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of hemoglobin that results in a change from glutamic acid to valine at position 6. All other amino acids are identical to a normal hemoglobin molecule.

Based on the information above, which of the following mutations is the most likely cause of sickle-cell anemia?

(A) A single base-pair substitution in the gene encoding the beta subunit
(B) A single base-pair insertion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
(C) A single base-pair deletion in the gene encoding the beta subunit
(D) A translocation of DNA from one chromosome to another

Noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule

The reading frame of the sequence would shift, causing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point
The following DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading frame of the -hemoglobin gene. Given the codon chart listed on page 6, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence? (LO 3.6, EK 3.A.1)

5'- GTT TGT CTG TGG TAC CAC GTG GAC TGA -3'

(A) The mutation precedes the gene, so no changes would occur.
(B) Lysine (lys) would replace glutamine (gln), but there would be no other changes.
(C) The first amino acid would be missing, but there would be no other change to the protein.
(D) The reading frame of the sequence would shift, causing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point.

Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His

I don't know
A researcher proposes that the transmembrane portion of a certain protein consists of 24 amino acids. Based on the proposed model, calculate the number of nucleotides in the mRNA that encode only the amino acids in the transmembrane portion of the protein. (LO 3.4, EK 3.A.1)

(B) Lava has separated the population into two areas: an upland forest and a lowland marsh
On a large volcanic island, researchers are studying a population of annual herbaceous plants. Which of the following observations best supports the prediction that speciation will occur within the existing plant population?

(A) Individuals of the species sometimes reproduce asexually by producing runners.
(B) Lava has separated the population into two areas: an upland forest and a lowland marsh.
(C) Multiple groups of birds depend on the fruit produced by the plants as a source of food.
(D) The plants produce more seeds during warm summers than they do during cool summers.

Population A may undergo instantaneous speciation by the doubling of its chromosome numbers (polyploidy)
A large assemblage of land snails is subdivided into two populations (A and B) by a river that effectively isolates the two populations for an indefinitely long period. From an evolutionary standpoint, which of the following is the LEAST likely to occur in the two populations?

(A) Populations A and B will eventually differ in their ecological requirements.
(B) Population A may ultimately breed at a different time of the year than population B does.
(C) Population A may undergo instantaneous speciation by the doubling of its chromosome numbers (polyploidy).
(D) Under laboratory conditions, cross- fertilizations between members of the two populations may be successful even after a long period of geographical separation.

Comparing the arrangements of bones in the fins of lobe-finned fishes and limbs of the earliest tetrapods
Lobe-finned fishes were present in the oceans of the world approximately 400 million years ago. The first tetrapods (vertebrates that had limbs and could move on land) date to about 365 million years ago. One hypothesis states that early tetrapods evolved from lobe-finned fishes. Which of the following is the best plan for testing the hypothesis?

(A) Determining the number of fins found on lobe-finned fishes from different geographical locations
(B) Measuring the proportion of radioisotopes found in fossils of early tetrapods
(C) Comparing the arrangements of bones in the fins of lobe-finned fishes and limbs of the earliest tetrapods
(D) Sequencing DNA isolated from fossils of lobe-finned fishes to determine the size of the genome

Hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to subsequent generations
Based on the model of speciation presented, which of the following describes the most likely consequence to the populations over time?

(A) Hybrid individuals are less likely to pass their genetic information on to subsequent generations.
(B) Hybrid individuals living together are physically unable to mate with each other.
(C) Geographically isolated populations gradually acquire similar heritable traits.
(D) Differences between hybrid individuals of a species disappear over time.

Sterile individuals make no genetic contribution to the next generation
Which of the following best describes the reason for excluding hybrid males when calculating the allele frequencies of two interbreeding populations at the intermediate stage of speciation (Figure 2)?

(A) The process of mate selection in large groups often favors females over males.
(B) The frequency of sex-determining chromosomes is usually equal to 0.5. (C) Sterile individuals make no genetic contribution to the next generation. (D) The chance of inheriting a recessive allele from a male is too small to calculate.

Intermediate stage (Figure 2)
In a separate investigation, individual mice from two populations that in nature are geographically isolated from each other are mated in the laboratory. The hybrid offspring were then mated with individuals from either of the original populations. Only the female hybrid offspring were fertile. The experimental results are most consistent with which of the stages that are depicted in the model?

(A) Initial population (Figure 1)
(B) Intermediate stage (Figure 2)
(C) Late stage (Figure 3)
(D) Terminal stage (Figure 4)

Did Mars have the elements present in its atmosphere to support life?
A widely accepted hypothesis about the origin of life on Earth is that life arose approximately 3.5 billion years ago as the result of a complex sequence of chemical reactions that took place spontaneously in Earth's atmosphere. Another hypothesis about the origin of life suggests that life began somewhere else in the universe and arrived on Earth by chance.

Which of the following questions might scientists ask to most reliably determine if there has ever been life on Mars? (LO 1.30, EK 1.D.1)

(A) How far from Earth was Mars 3.5 billion years ago?
(B) Is there scientific proof that Earth ever had an oxygen-free atmosphere? (C) Did Mars have the elements present in its atmosphere to support life?
(D) Was there oxygen gas on Mars 3.5 billion years ago?

Can simple organic molecules form spontaneously in an oxygen-free atmosphere?
Which of the following questions about the origin of life on Earth is most scientifically testable? (LO 1.28, EK 1.D.1)

(A) Why were the earliest life-forms created using only twenty amino acids?
(B) Did life originate to make the universe a better place?
(C) Was catalytic RNA used by ancient organisms as a stepping stone to acquire protein enzymes?
(D) Can simple organic molecules form spontaneously in an oxygen-free atmosphere
?

Examining the upper part of the lower rock layer for evidence of a catastrophic event, such as the presence of shocked quartz, iridium, or soot particles
The fossils in a layer of rock are significantly different from those in the rock layer directly above it. One hypothesis to explain the difference is that a major extinction event occurred at the point in time represented by the transition between the two rock layers.

Which of the following is the best plan for collecting data to use in a test of the hypothesis? (LO 1.21, EK 1.C.1)

(A) Examining the upper part of the lower rock layer for evidence of a catastrophic event, such as the presence of shocked quartz, iridium, or soot particles
(B) Digging farther into the hillside to look for a section of sedimentary rock that has a third layer below the two layers that were already identified
(C) Comparing the genomes of organisms from different evolutionary lineages to estimate the relative geologic age of the upper rock layer
(D) Searching fossil collections in several museums for examples of the types of features once shared among organisms that are now extinct

The blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population.
Blackcap birds (Sylvia atricapilla) migrate out of Germany before wintertime. Prior to the 1960s, all members of a particular blackcap population flew to Spain, which had an abundant natural food source. Now, some members of the same blackcap population fly to the United Kingdom, where food placed in feeders by humans is abundant. The blackcaps return to the same forests in Germany to nest during the breeding season.

Some blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom have become distinguishable by certain physical and behavioral traits from blackcaps that migrate to Spain. Which of the following best predicts the effect on the blackcap population if humans in the United Kingdom continue to place food in feeders during the winter? (LO 1.22, EK 1.C.2)

(A) The blackcaps that migrate to Spain will selectively mate with the blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom, resulting in increased genetic variation in the blackcap population.
(B) The blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population.
(C) The blackcaps in Spain and the United Kingdom will migrate to other geographical locations in search of potential mating partners, resulting in a smaller blackcap population in Germany.
(D) The blackcaps will begin nesting at their wintering sites in Spain or the United Kingdom, resulting in a larger blackcap population migrating back to Germany after the breeding season has ended.

(C) View 2 because the rate of water movement into the RBCs equals the rate of water movement out of the cells

A

(B) The contraction rate increases as the osmolarity decreases because the amount of water entering the paramecia by osmosis increases.

(C) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will expand as water moves osmotically into the cells from the blood
Intravenous (IV) solutions administered to patients are normally isotonic. Which of the following is most likely if an IV of distilled water is administered to a patient?

(A) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will shrink as a result of salt moving into the blood.
(B) The liver will secrete additional bile salts into the blood to raise the tonicity of the administered fluid.
(C) The cells that are exposed to hypotonic solutions will expand as water moves osmotically into the cells from the blood.
(D) The patient's respiration rate will slow to compensate for the higher levels of circulating blood.

(A) Ions are unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the nonpolar tail regions of the phospholipids are hydrophobic
Which of the following statements is true regarding the movement of substances across cell membranes?

(A) Ions are unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the nonpolar tail regions of the phospholipids are hydrophobic.
(B) Ions are able to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the polar head regions of the phospholipids are charged.
(C) Water is able to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the nonpolar tail regions of the phospholipids are charged.
(D) Water is unable to move through the phospholipid bilayer because the polar head regions of the phospholipids are charged.

Single-celled organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the increased flow of water from cells to the environment.
The salinity of a small inland lake has recently started to increase. Researchers are planning to study the lake over several decades to investigate how freshwater organisms survive significant changes in their natural habitat. Which of the following physiological mechanisms will the researchers most likely observe among the surviving organisms in the lake?

(A) Prokaryotic organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract swelling of cells as a result of increased water uptake.
(B) Single-celled organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the increased flow of water from cells to the environment.
(C) Eukaryotic organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the diffusion of positively charged ions across the cell membrane.
(D) Multicellular organisms will use various mechanisms to counteract the loss of cell adhesion as a result of calcium deficiencies

Na+ transport out of the cell requires ATP hydrolysis

Which molecular substance is actively transported across the plasma membrane?

no clue

no clue
A cell has a surface area of 32 μm2 and a volume of 8 μm3. A different cell has a surface area of 36 μm2 and a volume of 12 μm3. What is the ratio of surface area to volume for the cell that is predicted to exchange materials with the surrounding environment at a faster rate by diffusion? Enter your answer as a fraction or a whole number.

A

C

Is the EDA gene as representative of the differences between the populations as the 25 random genes that were examined for Figure 3?
The phylogenetic trees in Figures 2 and 3 depict two different phylogenies of the same populations of sticklebacks. Which of the following questions will best help determine which tree represents the most accurate phylogeny?

(A) Is the EDA gene as representative of the differences between the populations as the 25 random genes that were examined for Figure 3?
(B) Are the low-plated populations found only in freshwater and the high-plated populations found only in saltwater environments?
(C) Is the common ancestor of the organisms represented in Figure 2 different from the common ancestor of the organisms represented in Figure 3?
(D) Is the expression level of the EDA gene analyzed in Figure 2 significantly greater than the expression levels of the 25 genes analyzed in Figure 3?

Are species III and IV the most closely related?

A

D

D

Arginine to leucine at position X on the cladogram

A

3

B

D

D

A

GFP* contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains why a bright green fluorescence was observed following stimulation of a presynaptic neuron?

(A) GFP* synthesis was activated when a gene taken up by the neuron was switched on.
(B) GFP* stored in the cytoplasm of the neuron was packaged into synaptic vesicles.
(C) GFP* contained in synaptic vesicles moved into the synaptic cleft by exocytosis.
(D) GFP* present in the synaptic cleft was reabsorbed by endocytosis into the neuron.

Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.
Which of the following observations best supports the hypothesis that CDK5 negatively regulates neurotransmitter release?

(A) Introduction of CDK5 protein into neurons results in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in the absence of any stimulus.
(B) Uptake of a gene encoding CDK5 by neurons results in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in the absence of any stimulus.
(C) Suppression of CDK5 expression in neurons inhibits the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus. (D) Inhibition of CDK5 activity in neurons increases the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane in response to a specific stimulus.

CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.
Based on the model, which of the following describes the most likely mechanism by which CDK5 regulates neurotransmitter release?

(A) CDK5 adds methyl groups to DNA, altering expression of genes required for synthesis of neurotransmitters.
(B) CDK5 promotes the rearrangement of the lipid molecules of two bilayers into a single membrane.
(C) CDK5 alters the activity of other proteins involved in the movement of synaptic vesicles to the plasma membrane.
(D) CDK5 binds to gated ion channels in the postsynaptic membrane, resulting in diffusion of calcium ions.

Degradation of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.
Previous experiments indicate that CDK5 is active only when attached to a protein called p35. Which of the following best predicts how p35 might play a role in regulating neuron function?

(A) Elevated intracellular levels of p35 result in increased synaptic activity.
(B) Degradation of p35 results in increased synaptic activity.
(C) Reabsorption of p35 from the synaptic cleft results in increased synaptic activity.
(D) Attachment of p35 to synaptic vesicles results in increased synaptic activity.

Different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitter.
Based on the model, which of the following best explains how regulation of neurotransmitter release might increase the range of responses to a stimulus in the nervous system?

(A) In the absence of any stimulus, neurons can still release neurotransmitters.
(B) Different neurons in the same neural network can release different amounts of neurotransmitter.
(C) In the depolarization phase of an action potential, postsynaptic neurons can adjust the amount of neurotransmitter bound to receptors on their surface.
(D) In the recovery phase following a stimulus, enzymes can be mobilized to degrade molecules present in the synaptic vesicles.

C
Which of the following is the most likely mode of inheritance for the disease?
Autosomal recessive

If individual 2 were to marry a woman with no family history of the disease, which of the following would most likely be true of their children?
None of the children would have the disease

If individual 6 marries a woman with the disease, what is the probability that their first child will have the disease?
50%

A series of crosses performed with fruit flies to examine inheritance of the genes vestigal and cinnabar...
The two genes are linked on an autosome

A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing huntingdon's disease...
Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with huntingdon's disease?

PKU is an inherited disease caused by an autosomal recessive allele. If two individuals who are carriers of the PKU have two children, what is the probability that neither child will have PKU
56%

The occurrence of a particular genetic condition in a family is shown in the pedigree. Which of the following is the most likely inheritance pattern from the individuals within the condition?
Autosomal dominant

If a single gene locus controls wing shape, then the alleles for this gene act as...
Dominant-recessive alleles

An individual who is a carrier for a sexlinked trait like hemophilia:
All of the above

In a species that has five different alleles for a gene at a particular locus how many different alleles may be present in the somatic cells of one diploid individual?
Two

Between which two genes would you expect the highest frequency of recombination?
A and G

"A" represents the dominant allele and "a" represents the recessive allele of a pair. If, in 1000 offspring, 500 are of some other genotype, which of the following are most probably the genotypes of the parents?
Aa and aa

If a male with hypophosphatemia marries a normal female, which of the following predictions concerning their potential progeny would be true?
All of their daughters would inherit the disease

Which of the following best describes the parents in a testcross?
One individual has the dominant phenotype and the other has the recessive phenotype

What is the order of these genes on a chromosome map?
b-rb-cn-vg

A cross between two pea plants results in 296 tall yellow plants and 104 tall green plants. Which of the following is most likely to be the genotypes of the parents?
TtYyxTTYy

In human, red-green color blindness is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a man and a woman produce a color-blind son, which of the following must be true?
The mother carries the allele for color blindness

Individuals who express a particular trait are represented by shaded figures. Which of the following patterns of inheritance best explains the transmission of the trait?
Autosomal dominant

When black mice from a population mate, they produce offspring in the following ratios: 9 black, 3 brown, 4 white. These results suggest that white coat color is expressed as a result of
Epistasis

Which of the following can be diagnosed by examining a karyotype of an individual's white blood cells?
Downs Syndrome

Matching
1/2

Matching
1/16

Matching
1/2

Matching
1/4

The father must have which of the following blood types?
Either AB or A

If the father has blood type AB, which of the following statements is correct about the mother?
She contributes an i allele, which is recessive to the father's IA allele

Various forms of a gene at a given locus are called
Alleles

Which of the following genotypes is homozygous
aaBB

Gene A occurs on chromosome #5, gene B occurs on chromosome #21.Therefore these two portions of the chromosome cannot be
Loci

If you found a black short haired animal, you could determine its genotype by crossing it with a genotype of
llbb

Type of inheritance that would suggest the concept of blending is
Incomplete dominance

If a pure-breeding long-tail cat is crossed with a pure-breeding cat with no tail, and a cat with a short tail is produced, the simplest explanation is
An incompletely dominant gene

Pleiotrophic genes
Influence more than one aspect of phenotype

Genes at one locus that effect the expression of genes at a different locus are said to be
Epistatic

A karyotype
Is a visual display of chromosomes arranged according to size

With respect to chromosomes, the difference between normal human males and females is defined by which of the following?
In males an X is replaced by a Y

An autosomal recessive disorder
Will appear only in children of parents who both carry the gene

Males tend to be affected in greater numbers by x-linked recessive genetic disorders than females because
Males have only one recessive gene for the disorder

A chromosome's gene sequence that was ABCD then ABDC afterward is an example of
Translocation

Polyploidy
All of these

The failure of chromosomes to separate during mitosis or meiosis is called
Nondisjunction

If short hair is dominant to long hair, animals LL and Ll have the same
Phenotypes

In a punnett square, the letters within the little boxes represent
Offspring genotypes

Males with PCD are often sterile because they produce sperm with defective flagella. Which of the following most likely explains the effect of the recessive allele?
The cells do not produce functional motor proteins in cilia and flagella

Which of the following observations about inheritance in pea plants could be explained only after the discovery that genes may be linked on a chromosome?
Most offspring of a given cross have a combination of traits that is identical to that of either one parent or the other

Individuals who are carriers for an autosomal recessive disorder would be genotypically
A. homozygous recessive
B. heterozygous
C. homozygous dominant
D. homozygous dominant or heterozygous
B. heterozygous

In the chi square formula (shown on the given equations sheet), the "E" represents
A. Chi square
B. observed values
C. expected values
D. probability
C. expected values

A trait with polygenic inheritance would
A. be controlled by a single gene
B. be controlled by many genes
C. have a range of phenotypes
D. both B and C
D. both B and C

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inherited disease caused by a recessive allele. If a woman and her husband, who are both carriers, have three children, what is the probability that all three children will have a normal phenotype?
A. 27/64
B. 1/4
C. 3/4
D. 9/16
...

A man has six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. His wife has the normal number of digits. Extra digits is a dominant trait. They have one child with the normal number of digits. What fraction of this couple's children would be expected to have extra digits?
A. 9/16
B. 1/4
C. 3/4
D.1/2
D. 1/2

A man with hemophilia (a recessive, sex-linked condition) has a daughter of normal phenotype. The daughter marries a man who is normal for the trait. What is the probability that a daughter from this mating will be a hemophiliac?
A. 0%
B. 50%
C. 100%
D. 25%
A. 0%

Skin color in humans is determined by a polygenic inheritance system, possibly involving as many as 9 genes. For simplicity let's consider the influence of 3 genes. A, B, and D where the dominant darkens skin color. Supposed a woman who is AABBDd mates with a man who is AaBbdd. How many different skin colors would be possible for their offspring?
A. 8
B. 5
C. 4
D. 2
...

Blood type is used frequently as evidence in paternity suits. A mother is blood type O and has a child of blood type A. Which of the following blood types would eliminate a man from being the father?
A. type A
B. type AB
C. type B
D. type O
C. type B

Why are X-linked recessive conditions more common in men than women?
A. men acquire two copies of the defective genes during fertilization
B. women must inherit two copies of the dominant gene for the condition to be fully expressed
C. men need inherit only one copy of the recessive allele for the condition to be fully expressed
D. men can inherit the condition from either their father or their mother
C. men need inherit two copies of the dominant gene for the condition to be fully expressed

Nondisjunction of chromosomes during meiosis can result in gametes with an incorrect number of chromosomes. If a male embryo is formed with an extra Y chromosome creating an XYY individual, in which parent and at which division and nondisjunction likely occur?
A. meiosis I in the mother
B. meiosis II in the mother
C. meiosis I in the father
D. meiosis II in the father
C. meiosis I in the father

One of the affected males from the third generation has a child with a female who is a carrier. For the pedigree shown above, which of the following best expresses the probability that the couple's first son will be affected with the disorder?
A. 25%
B. 50%
C. 75%
D. 100%
B. 50%

A genetic counselor is by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
A. Were you and your cousin born in the same geographical area?
B. Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
C. Were you in physical contact with a person diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
D. Were you ever exposed to substances that are suspected of being mutagenes?
B. Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease

Two pink flowers (Rr), of the species Japanese four-o'clock plant, are crossed. Assuming incomplete dominance, the chances of obtaining a red-colored offspring is:
A. 0%
B. 25%
C. 50%
D. 75%
B. 25%

Which is true of polygenic inheritance?
A. a single gene with multiple alleles controls the trait
B. multiple genes control the trait
C. more than one genotype can give the same phenotype
D.both B and C are true
...

An individual with type A blood can have which of the following genotypes?
A. I^A I^A
B. I^Ai
C. ii
D. I^A I^A or I^Ai
D. I^A I^A or I^Ai

If two alleles are codominant to each other, which of the following is true?
A. a heterozygote will express an intermediate phenotype
B. a heterozygote will fully express the phenotypes for both alleles
C. an allele will only be expressed in the homozygous condition
D. all of the above are true
B. a heterozygote will fully express the phenotypes for both alleles

If an individual has no antigens on the surface for his/her red blood cells, what blood type do they have
A. type A
B. type AB
C. type O
D. type B
C. type O

Which blood type could be given to any individual and not elicit an immune response to the blood?
A. type A
B. type AB
C. type O
D. type B
C. type O

Looking at the chi-square chart on the given AP equations sheet, consider that you perform the following cross in fruit flies. Bb x bb where B=normal eye color and b=brown eye color/ Your hypothesis is that normal is dominant to brown and it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. After collecting your data, you perform a chi-squared test and obtain a chi-square value of 4.04. Which of the following would you conclude?
A. the chi-square value is lower than the critical value and supports the hypothesis
B. the chi-square value is higher than the critical value and supports the hypothesis
C. the chi-square value is lower than the critical value and does not support the hypothesis
D. the chi-square value is higher than the critical value and does not support the hypothesis
D. the chi-square value is higher than the critical value and does not support the hypothesis

If a piece of chromosome 14 and a piece of chromosome 15 are broken and switched, it is called
A. crossing over
B. deletion
C. duplication
D. translocation
D. translocation

Looking at the provided AP equations sheet, what would be the critical value for a chi-square test involving 5 possible categories
A. 13.28
B. 15.09
C. 9.49
D. 11.07
C. 9.49

Which of the following is supported by the data?
A. The alleles for gray body and long wings are dominant
B. The alleles for gray body and long wings are recessive
C. Genes for the two traits are located on two different chromosomes and independent assortment occurred
D. Genes for the two traits are located close together on the same chromosome and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci
D; Genes for the two traits are located close together on the same chromosome and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci

In the following human pedigree, square represent males, circles represent females, and shaded symbols indicate individuals affected with a disorder.

One of the affected males from the third generation had a child with a female who is a carrier. For the pedigree shown above, which of the following best expresses the probability that the couple's first son will be affected with the disorder?

A) 25%
B) 50%
C) 75%
D) 100%
B; 50%

X-linked conditions are more common in men than in women because
A) the genes associated with the x-linked conditions are linked x chromosome, which determines maleness
B) men need to inherit only one copy of the recessive allele for the condition to be fully expressed.
C) women simply do not develop the disease regardless of their genetic composition
D) the sex chromosomes are more active in men than in women
B; men need to inherit only one copy of the recessive allele for the condition to be fully expressed.

Based on the data in table 1, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the F1 generation?
A) Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape
B) The inflated-pod offspring in the F1 generation are homozygous
C) Constricted pod shape typically arises from a new mutation in the F1 generation
D) The constricted-pod offspring are carriers for the inflated pod shape allele
A; Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape

In Table I, the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring
from the test cross with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggests that the gene for flower color and pod shape are located
(A) close together on the same autosome
(B) on the X chromosome
(C) on different chromosomes
(D) on a mitochondrial chromosome
C; on different chromosomes

Which of the following provides the best justification for an assumption that might have been used in the computer simulation (Table II)?
A) The broad allele is recessive to the narrow allele because broad leaves appear in every generation.
B) The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and white-flowered plants had purple flowers.
C) The narrow allele is codominant with the purple allele because the purple-flower trait and the narrow-leaf trait segregate together.
D) The white allele is dominant to both the broad narrow alleles because plants with either type of leaf shape can have white flowers.
B; The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and white-flowered plants had purple flowers.

In table II, the F1 offspring of the cross between broad=leaved, white-flowered plants with narrow-leaved, purple-flowered plants have a phenotype that differs from either parent. However, many test cross offspring have the same phenotype as one of the two plants in the parental cross, but relatively few test cross offspring have the same phenotype as the F1 offspring. which of the following best explains the observation?
A) Recombination between the leaf-shape and flower color genes resulted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes
B) Recombination between the broad and narrow alleles of the leaf shape gene resulted in chromosomes carrying three different alleles at the same genetic locus.
C) Independent assortment of homologous chromosomes resulted in the combinations of alleles present in the parental generation.
D) The computer model cannot capture the possible assortment of gametes when multiple genes are considered.
A; Recombination between the leaf-shape and flower-color genes resulted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes

Which of the following is the most likely explanation of the results
A) The two genes are located on two different chromosomes
B) The two genes are sex-linked
C) The two genes are located on mitochondrial DNA
D) The two genes are linked on an autosome
D; The two genes are linked on an autosome

Gregor Mendel's pioneering genetic experiments with pea plants occurred before the discovery of the structure and function
A) Pea color and pea shape display independent inheritance patterns.
B) Offspring of a given cross show all possible combinations of traits in equal proportions.
C) Most offspring of a given cross have a combination of traits that is identical to that of either one parent or the other.
D) Recessive phenotypes can skip a generation, showing up only in the parental and F2 generations.
C; Most offspring of a given cross have a combination of traits that is identical to that of either one parent or the other.

A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about developing Huntington's disease, an inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. The young man explains that his cousin was recently diagnosed with Huntington's disease, and the news has caused him to consider his own risk of developing the disorder. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
A) Were you and your cousins born in the same geographical area?
B) Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
C) Were you in physical contact with a person diagnosed with Huntington's disease?
D) Were you exposed to substances that are suspected of being mutagens?
B; Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?

Hydrangea macrophylla is a species of plant with blue or pink flowers. Flower color in hydrangea macrophylla plants is thought to be determined primarily by soil conditions rather than inherited differences. Which of the following will provide the most direct evidence that flower color is due primarily to soil conditions?
a) comparing DNA sequence information for Hydrangea macrophylla to DNA sequence information for a different species of flowering plant
b) performing a genetic cross between a pink flowered plant and a blue flowered plant and then determining the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring
c) growing cuttings from the same Hydrangea macrophylla plant under controlled conditions that vary only with regard to soil pH
d) analyzing fossilized remains of an ancestral species that grew in geographic areas similar to the habitats of modern Hydrangea macrophylla.
c; growing cuttings from the same Hydrangea macrophylla plant under controlled conditions that vary only with regard to soil pH

Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye has two alleles: a dominant allele (R) that results in red eyes and a recessive allele (r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex-linked gene that controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T) that allows for expression of the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for expression of the colored pigments. Individuals without a T allele have white eyes regardless of the alleles of other eye-color genes.

Which of the following represents a cross between a white-eyed female and a red-eyed male?
A) Tt XRXR x tt XrY
B) Tt XrXr x tt XRY
C) RR XTXT x Rr XTY
D) Rr XtXt x Rr XTY
D; Rr XtXt x Rr XTY

The pedigree below shows the inheritance of a dominant allele of a gene in a family over several generation. Circles represent females and squares represent males. Shaded symbols indicate individuals carrying the allele.
The pedigree suggest that the gene is on a nuclear chromosome, and not on a mitochondrial DNA, because
A) mitochondrial genes are not heritable
B) mitochondrial mutations cannot produce dominant traits
C) maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring
D) mitochondrial DNA is circular, whereas chromosomal DNA is linear
C; maternal mitochondrial mutations are inherited by all of a mother's offspring

A man with high cholesterol levels is about to marry a woman whose total cholesterol levels are also higher than average. A physician has suggested they get tested for the HC (high blood cholesterol) allele. Which of the following is a valid ethical question concerning the test?
(A) How important are the results of the test to the couple's health, since they already know they have HC?
(B) How can they eliminate the allele for HC from their cells?
(C) If both have the allele for HC, should an insurance company raise their rates because of the results of the test?
(D) What cures are available for HC other than dietary changes and exercise?
C; If both have the allele for HC, should an insurance company raise their rates because of the results of the test?

In Drosophila melanogaster the allele for wild-type body color (B) is dominant to the recessive allele for black body color (b). Similarly, the allele for wild type wing shape (V) is dominant to the recessive allele for vestigial wings phenotype (v). In the cross diagrammed above, the expected and observed results are shown. Which of the following best explains the observed results of the cross?
(A) The alleles for body color and wing shape assort independently, as predicted by Mendel's laws.
(B) The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.
(C) The traits of body color show complete dominance over the traits of wing shape.
(D)The observed variations in body color and wing shape are detectable in males but not in females.
B; The genes for body color and wing shape are located close to each other on the same chromosome.

The data above represents the results of three different crosses involving the inheritance of a gene that determines whether a certain organism is blue or white. Which of the following best explains the mechanism of inheritance of the gene?
A) The allele for white is an autosomal dominant allele because 1:1 phenotype ratio of blue to white among both sexes is observed in cross 3.
B) The all for blue is an autosomal dominant allele because an approximate 3:1 phenotype ratio of blue to white is observed in cross 1
C) The allele for white is an x-linked dominant allele because no white females are produced in cross 1.
D) The allele for blue is an x-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2
D; The allele for blue is an x-linked dominant allele because there are no blue male offspring in cross 2

An allele on the X chromosome is responsible for the recessive trait of red-green color blindness in humans. The daughter of the woman who is color-blind has normal vision and marries a man who is color blind. This couple has a son, what is the probability that the son will be color blind?
C. 1/2

A genetic counselor is consulted by a young man who is worried about Huntington's disease, in inherited disorder caused by a dominant allele of a single gene. Which of the following questions will best help the genetic counselor to evaluate the risk of the young man developing Huntington's disease and transmitting it to his children?
B. Were your parents or grandparents ever diagnosed with Huntington's disease?

In the pedigree above, the expression of this trait is most likely due to which of the following?
D. Autosomal recessive

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 1:1:1:1 ratio
D. TtRr x ttrr

Offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit a 3:3:1:1 ratio
E. TtRr x ttRr

All offspring from this cross are expected to exhibit both dominant traits
C. TTRr x TtRR

This cross is an example of a dihybrid cross in which both parents are heterozygous
B. TtRr x TtRr

The tiny blue-eyed Mary flower is often one of the first flowers seen in the spring in some regions of the US. The flower is normally blue, but sometimes a white or a pink flower variation is found. Which of the following best explains the data?
D. Flower color is an inherited trait, and the F1 and F2 phenotypes of the flowers arising from a pink and white cross can best be explained by another gene product that influences the phenotypic expression.

A series of crosses is performed with fruit flies to examine inheritance genes vestigial and cinnabar... Which of the following is most likely explanation of the results?
D. The genes are linked on an autosomal

Based on the data in table 1, which of the following best explains why there are no individuals with constricted pods in the F1 generation?
A. Inflated pod shape is dominant to constricted pod shape

In table 1, the ratio of phenotypes in the offspring from the test crosses with F1 plants that had purple flowers and inflated pods suggest that the genes for flower color and pod shape are located
C. On different chromosomes

Which of the following provides the best justification for the assumption that might have been used in the computer simulation?
B. The purple allele is dominant to the white allele because all the offspring from the cross of purple-flowered and white-flowered plants had purple flowers.

In the table II, the F1 offspring of the cross between broad-leaved, white-flowered plants with narrow-leaved, purple flowers had a phenotype that differs from that of either parent... Which of the following best explains the observation?
A. Recombination between the leaf shape and flower color genes resulted in chromosomes carrying a dominant allele of both genes.

A student in a biology class crossed a male fruit fly with a grey body and long wings with a female fruit fly with a black body and apterous wings. Which of the following is supported by the data?
D. Genes for two traits are located close together on the same chromosome, and crossing over occurred between the two gene loci.

One of the affected males from the third generation has a child with a female who is a carrier. For the pedigree shown above, which of the following best expresses the probability that the couple's first son will be affected with the disorder?
B. 50%

If two individuals who are carriers of PKU have two children, what is the possibility that neither child will have PKU?
9/16

The man has Ao blood type and the woman had Bo blood type. The frequency of other genotypes is Oo 25% of the time, AB 25% of the time, Ao 25% of the time and Bo 25% of the time.
A man with type A blood marries a woman with type B blood. Their child has type O blood. What are the genotypes of these three individuals? What genotypes, and in what frequencies, would you expect in future offspring from this marriage?

1⁄2 of their children could have extra digits.
A man has six fingers on each hang and six toes on each foot. His wife and their daughter have the normal number of digits. Remember that extra digits is a dominant trait. What fraction of this couple's children would be expected to have extra digits?

A) 1⁄64, B) 1⁄64, C) 1⁄8, D) 1⁄32
Flower position, stem length, and seed shape are three characters that Mendel studied. Each is controlled by an independently assorting gene and has dominant and recessive expression as indicated in Table 14.1. If a plant that is heterozygous for all three characters is allowed to self-fertilize, what proportion of the offspring would you expect to be as follows?
(a) homozygous for the three dominant traits
(b) homozygous for three recessive traits
(c) heterozygous for all three characters
(d) homozygous for axial and tall, heterozygous for seed shape.

A) 3⁄4 × 3⁄4 × 3⁄4 = 27⁄64, B) 1 — 27⁄64 = 37⁄64, C) 1⁄4 × 1⁄4 × 1⁄4 = 1⁄64, D) 1 — 1⁄64=63
⁄64
Phenylketonuria(PKU) is an inherited disease caused by a recessive allele. If a woman and her husband, who are both carriers, have three children, what is the probability of each of the following?
(a) All three children are of normal phenotype.
(b) One or more of the three children have the disease.
(c) All three children have the disease.
(d) At least one child is phenotypically normal.

A) 1⁄256, B) 1⁄16, C) 1⁄256, D) 1⁄64, E) 1/128
The genotype of F1 individuals in a tetrahybrid cross is AaBbCcDd. Assuming independent assortment of these four genes, what are the probabilities that F2 offspring will have the following genotypes?
(a) aabbccdd
(b) AaBbCcDd
(c)AABBCCDD
(d) AaBBccDd
(e) AaBBCCdd

A) AABBCC × aabbcc AaBbCc
B) AABbCc × AaBbCc AAbbCC
C) AaBbCc × AaBbCc AaBbCc
D) aaBbCC × AABbcc AaBbCc
Answer: A) 1, B) 1⁄32, C) 1⁄8, D) 1⁄2
What is the probability that each of the following pairs of parents will produce the
indicated offspring? (Assume independent assortment of all gene pairs.)

1/9
Karen and Steve each have a sibling with sickle-cell disease. Neither Karen nor Steve nor
any of their parents have the disease, and none of them have been tested to reveal
sickle-cell trait. Based on this incomplete information, calculate the probability that if this
couple has a child, the child will have sickle-cell disease.

Matings of the original mutant cat with true-breeding noncurl cats will produce both
curl and noncurl F1 offspring if the curl allele is dominant, but only noncurl
offspring if the curl allele is recessive. You would obtain some true-breeding
offspring homozygous for the curl allele from matings between the F1 cats resulting
from the original curl × noncurl crosses whether the curl trait is dominant or
recessive. You know that cats are true-breeding when curl × curl matings produce
only curl offspring. As it turns out, the allele that causes curled ears is dominant.
In 1981, a stray black cat with unusual rounded, curled-back ears was adopted by a family
in California. Hundreds of descendants of the cat have since been born, and cat fanciers
hope to develop the curl cat into a show breed. Suppose you owned the first curl cat and
wanted to develop a true-breeding variety. How would you determine whether the curl
allele is dominant or recessive? How would you obtain true-breeding curl cats? How could
you be sure they are true-breeding?

25% will be cross-eyed; all of the cross-eyed offspring will also be white.
In tigers, a recessive allele causes an absence of fur pigmentation (a white tiger) and a
cross-eyed condition. If two phenotypically normal tigers that are heterozygous at this
locus are mated, what percentage of their offspring will be cross-eyed? What percentage
will be white?

The dominant allele I is epistatic to the P/p locus, and thus the genotypic ratio for the
F1 generation will be 9 I_P_ (colorless) : 3 I_pp (colorless) : 3 iiP_ (purple) : 1 iipp
(red). Overall, the phenotypic ratio is 12 colorless : 3 purple : 1 red.
In corn plants, a dominant allele I inhibits kernel color, while the recessive allele i permits
color when homozygous. At a different locus, the dominant allele P causes purple kernel
color, while the homozygous recessive genotype pp causes red kernels. If plants
heterozygous at both loci are crossed, what will be the phenotypic ratio of the offspring?

Recessive. All affected individuals (Arlene, Tom, Wilma, and Carla) are homozygous
recessive aa. George is Aa, since some of his children with Arlene are affected. Sam,
Ann, Daniel, and Alan are each Aa, since they are all unaffected children with one
affected parent. Michael also is Aa, since he has an affected child (Carla) with his
heterozygous wife Ann. Sandra, Tina, and Christopher can each have the AA or Aa
genotype.
The pedigree below traces the inheritance of alkaptonuria, a biochemical disorder. Affected
individuals, indicated here by the colored circles and squares, are unable to metabolize a
substance called alkapton, which colors the urine and stains body tissues. Does
alkaptonuria appear to be caused by a dominant allele or by a recessive allele? Fill in the
genotypes of the individuals whose genotypes can be deduced. What genotypes are
possible for each of the other individuals?

1/16
Imagine that you are a genetic counselor, and a couple planning to start a family comes to
you for information. Charles was married once before, and he and his first wife had a child
with cystic fibrosis. The brother of his current wife, Elaine, died of cystic fibrosis. What is
the probability that Charles and Elaine will have a baby with cystic fibrosis? (Neither
Charles nor Elaine has cystic fibrosis.)

(1999 #2) Assume that genes A and B are not linked. If the probability of allele A in a gamete is 1/2 and the probability of allele B in a gamete is 1/2, then the probability that both A and B are in the same gamete is...

(a) 1/2 x 1/2
(b) 1/2 + 1/2
(c) 1/2 ÷ 1/2
(d) sqr. of 1/2
(e) abs. 1/2- 1/2
A

(1999 #3) A couple has 5 children, all sons. If the women gives birth to a sixth child what is the probability that the sixth child will be a son?

(a) 5/6
(b) 1/2
(c) 1/5
(d) 1/6
(e) 1/64
B

(1999 #11) In sheep, eye color is controlled by a single gene with two alleles. When a homozygous brown-eyed sheep is crossed with a homozygous green-eyed sheep, blue-eyed offspring are produced. If the blue-eyed sheep are mated with each other, what percent of their offspring will most likely have brown eyes?

(a) 0%
(b) 25%
(c) 50%
(d) 75%
(e) 100%
B

(1999 #15) Which of the following occurs during mitosis but NOT during meiosis 1?

(a) The chromosomes are pulled to opposite poles of the spindle apparatus.
(b) The chromatids of each chromosome are separated.
(c) The nuclear envelope breaks down
(d) Both synapsis and crossing-over take place.
(e) The diploid number of chromosomes is reduced to the haploid number.
B

(1999 #28) In peas the trait for tall plants is dominant (T) and the trait for short plants is recessive (t). the trait for yellow seed color is dominant (Y) and the trait for greed seed color is recessive (y). A cross between two plants results in 296 tall yellow plants and 104 tall green plants. Which of the following are most likely to be the genotypes of the parents?

(a) TTYY x TTYY
(b) TTyy x TTYy
(c) TtYy x TTTy
(d) TtYY x Ttyy
D

(1999 #34) Nuclear division in which the chromosome number is reduced from 2n to n is part of the life cycle of all of the following organisms EXCEPT

(a) molds
(b) ferns
(c) insects
(d) bacteria
(e) protozoans
D

(1999 #43) In humans, red-green color blindness is a sex-linked recessive trait .If a man and a woman produce a color-blind son, which of the following must be true?

(a) The father is color-blind
(b) Both parents carry the allele for color blindness.
(c) Neither parent carries the allele for color blindness
(e) The mother carries the allele for color blindness
E

(1999 #51) Which of he following is the most likely explanation for a high rate of crossing-over between two genes?

(a) The two genes are far apart on the same chromosome
(b) the two genes are both located near the centromere
(c) The two genes are sex-linked
(d) The two genes code for the same protein
(e) The two genes are on different chromosomes
A

(1999 #54) In certain Native American groups, albinism due to a homozygous recessive condition in the biochemical pathway for melanin is sometimes seen. If the frequency of the allele for this condition is 0.06, which of the following is closest to the frequency of the dominant allele in this population? ( Assume that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium)

(a) 0.04
(b) 0.06
(c) 0.16
(d) 0.36
(e) 0.944
E

(1994.#108) If a single locus controls wing shape, then the alleles for this gene act as
(A) dominant-recessive alleles
(B) incomplete-dominance
(C) codominant alleles
(D) multiple alleles
(E) variable alleles
A

(1990 #72) In fruit flies, vermilion eyes are a sex-linked recessive characteristic. If a vermilion-eyed female is crossed with a wild-typed male, what proportion of the male offspring should have vermilion eyes?
(A) 0%
(B) 25%
(C) 50%
(D) 75%
(E) 100%
E

(1990 #5) A represents the dominant allele and a represents the recessive allele of a pair. If, in 1,000 offspring, 500 are aa and 500 are of some other genotype, which of the following are probably the genotypes of the two parents?
(A) Aa and Aa
(B) Aa and aa
(C) AA and Aa
(D) AA and aa
(E) aa and aa
B

(1990 #15) The primary value of a species type of back cross known as a test cross is to
(A) determine whether a trait is really hereditary
(B) permit detection of recessive genes
(C) reveal cases of blending inheritance
(D) reveal remote ancestors
(E) reveal sex-linked inheritance
B

(1990 #36) In corn, the trait for tall plants (T) is dominant to the trait for dwarf plants (t) and the trait for colored kernels (C) is dominant to the trait for white kernels (c). In a particular cross of corn plants, the probability of an offspring being tall is 1/2 and the probability of a kernel being colored is 3/4. Which of the following most probably represents the parental genotypes?
(A) TtCc x ttCc
(B) TtCc x TtCc
(C) TtCc x ttcc
(D) TTCc x ttCc
(E) TTCc x TtCC
A

(1990 #44) A form of vitamin D-resistant rickets, known as hypophosphatemia, is inherited as an X-linked dominate trait. If a male with hypophosphatemia marries a normal female, which of the following predictions concerning their potential progeny would be true?
(A) All of their sons would inherit the disease.
(B) All of their daughters would inherit the disease.
(C) About 50% of their sons would inherit the disease.
(D) About 50% of their daughters would inherit the disease.
(E) None of their daughters would inherit the disease.
B

A certain species of plant has four unlinked genetic loci, W, X, Y, and Z. Each genetic locus has one dominant allele and one recessive allele. For a plant with the genotype WwXxYyZz what is the probability that the plant will produce a gamete with a haploid genotype of Wxyz? Give your answer as a fraction.
1/16

Butterflies of the genus Colias live in the
Rocky Mountains, where they experience a wide
range of temperatures. Different variants of a
particular glycolytic enzyme in the flight muscles
are optimally active at different temperatures.
Within the same population, some individual
butterflies fly most effectively at 29 C° , while
others fly most effectively at 40°C. Still others
can be equally active at both temperatures.

Which of the following claims is most consistent
with the observed butterfly behavior?
butterflies that express two variants of the enzymes are active over a greater range of temperatures

a plant has a unique photosynthetic pigment. the leaves of this plant appear to be reddish yellow. what wavelengths of visible light are being absorbed by this pigment?
blue and violet

which of the following are products of the light reactions of photosynthesis that are utilized int he calvin cycle?
ATP and NADPH

How can one increase the rate of a chemical reaction?
add a catalyst

which of the following processes is carried out more efficiently by a C4 plant than by a C3 plant?
Fixation of CO2

increasing a substrate concentration in an enzymatic reaction could overcome which of the following?
Competitive inhibition

Which term most precisely describes the cellular process of breaking down large molecules into smaller ones?
Catabolism

in the absence of oxygen, yeast cells can obtain energy by fermentation, resulting in the production of...
ATP, CO2, and ethanol

Trypsinogen is split by the enzyme enterokinase to form an activated molecule of the protease trypsin. which of the following would confirm that the activation of trypsin is an example of how a positive feedback mechanism can amplify a biological process?
the trypsin produced by the reaction is capable of splitting and activating additional trypsinogen molecules

where are the molecules of the electron transport chain found in plant cells?
thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts

In addition to ATP, what are the end products of glycolysis?
NADH and pyruvate

where does the calvin cycle take place?
stroma of the chloroplast

If ATP breakdown (hydrolysis) is inhibited, which of the following types of movement across cell membranes is also inhibited?
Passage of a solute against its concentration gradient

When ATP releases some energy, it also releases inorganic phosphate. What happens to the inorganic phosphate in the cell?
It can be added to other molecules in order to activate them (positive feedback)

as a research scientist, you measure the amount of ATP and NADPH consumed by the calvin cycle in 1 hour. you find 30,000 molecules of ATP consumed, but only 20,000 molecules of NADPH. where did the extra ATP molecules come from?
cyclic electron flow

which of the following statements describes the results of this reaction?
C6H12O6 is oxidized and O2 is reduced

Which of the following describes a metabolic consequence of a shortage of oxygen in muscle cells?
A buildup of lactic acid in the muscle tissue due to fermentation

According to the induced fit hypothesis of enzyme catalysis, which of the following is correct?
the binding of the substrate changes the shape of the enzyme's active site

Reactants capable of interacting to form products in a chemical reaction must first overcome a thermodynamic barrier known as the reaction's...
activation energy

the figure above shows an organelle typically found in eukaryotic cells. which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?
the inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the inter-membrane space and the matrix

An airtight, temperature-controlled glass box containing actively growing tomato plants was placed under a light source. Plastic wrapping that only transmits green light was placed over the box, and two days later air samples from inside the box were collected and analyzed. The most likely change in air quality is...
an increase in carbon dioxide

a chemical reaction that has a positive
ΔG is correctly described as
endergonic

Carbon dioxide is released during which of the following stages of cellular respiration?
oxidation of pyruvate to acetyl CoA and the kreb's cycle

Why are C4 plants able to photosynthesize with no apparent photorespiration?
they are PEP carboxylase to initially fix CO2

the PH of the inner thylakoid space has been measured, as have the PH of the stroma and of the particular plant cell. Which, if any, relationship would you expect to find?
the PH within the thylakoid is less than that of the stroma

_______________ is a process that happens in Prophase I in meiosis and results in the exchange of sections of chromosomes
crossing over

WT stands for _______________
wild type

The ethanol and the flame are used to __________________
sterilize

The T stands for ______________
tan

The fungal hyphae are ______________ in chromosome number
haploid

After reproduction, the spores will form a ________________ zygote
diploid

With no crossing over, there will be an arrangement of four tan spores together and four ___________ spores together
black

When crossing over occurs there will be an alternative arrangement of black and tan spores in the ______________
ascus

The diagram above illustrates which of the following processes?
crossing-over

All of the following are true statements about meiosis in mammals EXCEPT:
It produces four genetically identical gametes

During prophase I replicated homologous chromosomes pair up and undergo synapsis. What testable question is generated regarding synapsis and genetic variability by Figure 1 ?
Is the distance between two gene loci related to crossover rate?

Scientists have found that DNA methylation suppresses crossing-over in the fungus Ascobolus immersus. Which of the following questions is most appropriately raised by this specific observation?
Is the level of genetic variation in the gametes related to the amount of DNA methylation observed?

If 2n = 48 for a particular cell, then the chromosome number in each cell after meiosis would be
24

The tadpoles of Mexican spadefoot toads are known to exhibit phenotypic plasticity depending on food availability. Tadpole mouthparts can vary significantly, prompting researchers to categorize them as either omnivore-morph or carnivore-morph. Carnivore-morph tadpoles are larger and have mouthparts that are better suited for predation. Remarkably, carnivore-morph tadpoles can change into omnivore-morph tadpoles when the food supply changes. Which of the following best describes an advantage of the phenotypic plasticity displayed by the tadpoles?
It gives the tadpoles increased versatility with respect to diet.

When a mustard plant seedling is transferred to an environment with higher levels of carbon dioxide, the new leaves have a lower stromata-to-surface-area ratio than do the seedling's original leaves. Which of the following best explains how the leaves from the same plant can have different stomatal densities when exposed to an elevated carbon dioxide level?
Leaf growth is promoted through increased photosynthesis, but the genetically regulated rate of stomatal production is not altered, leading to a decrease in stomatal density.

For sexually reproducing diploid parent cells, which of the following statements best explains the production of haploid cells that occurs in meiosis but not in mitosis?
Separation of chromatids occurs once, and there are two rounds of cell division in meiosis.

Four trials measuring recombination frequency between gene R and gene L were conducted, and the results are shown in Table 1. The mean map distance between gene R and gene L is closest to which of the following?
28 map units

Himalayan rabbits are a breed of rabbits with a highly variable fur color. If genetically similar rabbits are raised in environments that have different temperature conditions, the rabbits can have different color patterns. Which of the following best explains how the fur color can be different in Himalayan rabbits raised under different temperature conditions?
The environment determines how the genotype is expressed.

Which of the following best explains a distinction between metaphase I and metaphase II?
Homologous pairs of chromosomes are aligned during metaphase I, but individual chromosomes are aligned during metaphase II.

Researchers hypothesized that red eye color in Japanese koi, a type of fish, is due to a mutation. To study the inheritance of red eye color in koi, the researchers conducted breeding experiments over several generations. The results are summarized in Figure 1. Based on the data in Figure 1, which of the following is the best prediction of the mode of inheritance of red eyes in Japanese koi?
The allele for red eyes is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.

Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that converts glucose into pyruvate and is observed in each of the three domains. The hexokinase family of enzymes is required during glycolysis to phosphorylate six-carbon sugars. Researchers designed a general hexokinase inhibitor that is effective in the neurons of rats. Which of the following best predicts the effect of adding this inhibitor to a culture of plant cells?
Plant cells will be unable to perform glycolysis due to the inhibitor and will die.

Based on Figure 1, which of the following questions could best be addressed?
Does synapsis of homologous chromosomes in the parent cell contribute to an increase in genetic diversity in the daughter cells?

Rubber rabbitbrush plants display heritable variation in plant height and insect-induced gall formation. In a field study, researchers investigated the relationship between plant height and gall number for the rubber rabbitbrush plants in a natural population. The researchers used the data they collected to perform a chi-square test of independence. The null hypothesis for the chi-square test was that plant height and gall number are independent. The data used for the chi-square test are presented in Table 1. The researchers calculated a chi-square value of 29.25. If there are three degrees of freedom and the significance level of p=0.05, which of the following statements best completes the chi-square test?
The critical value is 7.82, and the null hypothesis can be rejected because the calculated chi-square value is greater than the critical value.

Sex chromosomes determine the phenotype of sex in humans. Embryos containing XX chromosomes develop into females, and embryos containing XY chromosomes develop into males. The sex chromosomes separate during meiosis, going to different gamete cells. A woman is heterozygous for the X-linked recessive trait of hemophilia A. Her sex chromosomes can be designated as XHXh. During meiosis the chromosomes separate as shown in Figure 1. If the woman and a man with normal clotting function have children, what is the probability of their children exhibiting hemophilia A?
50 percent for sons, 0 percent for daughters.

Several members of a family are found to involuntarily sneeze when exposed to bright lights, such as sunlight. Following analysis of the condition in the family, a doctor predicts that the symptoms have an underlying genetic basis. A pedigree of the family is shown in Figure 1. For this condition, which of the following modes of inheritance is most consistent with the observations?
Autosomal dominant

Which of the following is closest to the calculated chi-square (x2) value for the data presented in Table 1?
72.01

A true-breeding variety of wheat that produces deep-red-colored grain was crossed with a true-breeding variety that produces a white-colored grain. The resulting F1 offspring all had medium-red-colored grain. Five crosses of the F1 plants were all grown under the same conditions and resulted in plants with a variety of grain color, as indicated in Table 1. Which of the following indicates the mean number per cross of F2 plants producing medium-red grain and correctly explains the distribution of the phenotypes?
The mean number of medium-red phenotypes per cross is 20.8. The distribution of phenotypes suggests that multiple genes are involved in grain color determination.

Huntington's disease has been traced to the number of CAG repeats in the HTT gene, which is located on chromosome 4. The phenotypic influence of individual alleles with different numbers of repeats is shown in Table 1. Which of the following is most likely the immediate cause of the first appearance of Huntington's disease in a person?
An allele with more than 39 CAG repeats was inherited by the infected person.

A gene that influences coat color in domestic cats is located on the X chromosome. A female cat that is heterozygous for the gene (XBXO) has a calico-colored coat. In a genetics experiment, researchers mate a calico-colored female cat (XBXO) with an orange-colored male cat (XOY) to produce an F1 generation. The researchers record observations for the cats in the F1 generation and plan to use to data to perform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test fir a model of X-linked inheritance. The data for the chi-square goodness-of-fit test are presented in Table 1.
The null hypothesis cannot be rejected because the chi-square value is less than the critical value.

A student crosses a pure-breeding line of red-flowered poinsettias with a pure-breeding line of white-flowered poinsettias. The student observes that all the plants in the F1 generation have pink flowers. The student then crosses the F1 plants with one another and records observations about the plants in the F2 generation. The student will use the F2 data to perform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for a model of incomplete dominance. The setup for the student's chi-square goodness-of-fit test is presented in Table 1. The critical value for a chi-square test with a significance level of p=0.05 and 2 degrees of freedom is 5.99. Which of the following statements best completes the student's chi-square goodness-of-fit test?
The calculated chi-square value is 1.53, and the hypothesis cannot be rejected.

In a strain of tomato plants, short plant height and small fruit size are traits that display autosomal recessive patterns of inheritance. To investigate whether the traits segregate independently, researchers cross a pure-breeding line of tall tomato plants that have large fruits with a pure-breeding line of short tomato plants that have small fruits. The researchers observe that all the plants in the F1 generation are tall and have large fruits. The researchers cross the F1 plants with one another to generate an F2 generation. The researchers record observations for the F2 generation and will use the data to perform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for a model of independent assortment. The setup for the chi-square goodness-of-fit test is shown in Table 1.
The researchers choose a significance level of p=0.05, whose critical value would be 7.82. Which of the following best completes the chi-square goodness-of-fit test?
The calculated chi-square value is 9.24, and the critical value is 7.82. The null hypothesis of independent assortment can be rejected.

In fruit flies, purple eyes and ebony body are traits that display autosomal recessive patterns of inheritance. In a genetics experiment, students cross wild-type flies with flies that have purple eyes and ebony bodies. The students observe that all the flies in the F1 generation have normal eyes and a normal body color. The students then allow the F1 flies to mate and produce an F2 generation. The students record observations about the flies in the F2 generation and use the data to perform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for a model of independent assortment. The setup for the students' chi-square goodness-of-fit test is presented in Table 1.
The students choose a significance level of p=0.01. Which of the following statements best completes the next step of the chi-square goodness-of-fit test?
The calculated chi-square value is 10.48, and the critical value is 11.35.

The Russian blue is a rare breed of cat that is susceptible to developing cataracts on the eyes. Scientists hypothesize that this condition is inherited as a result of a mutation. Figure 1 shows a pedigree obtained in a study of cats owned by members of the Russian Blue Club in Sweden. Based on the inheritance pattern shown in Figure 1, which of the following best predicts the nature of the original mutation?
A recessive mutation on a somatic chromosome

A model showing two possible arrangements of chromosomes during meiosis is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following questions about genetic diversity could most appropriately be answered by analysis of the model in Figure 1 ?
How does the independent assortment of the two sets of homologous chromosomes increase genetic diversity?

An African violet grower observes that genetically identical African violet plants growing near the walls of the greenhouse have white flowers, that plants growing farther away from the walls have pale blue flowers, and that plants growing nearest the center of the greenhouse have dark blue flowers.
Which of the following best explains the differences in flower color of the African violets in the greenhouse?
An enzyme responsible for flower color does not fold correctly in cooler temperatures, and the greenhouse is warmest in the center.

A scientist studying phenotypic variation in a species of butterfly observed that genetically identical caterpillars grown in similar cages but exposed to different colored lights developed into butterflies with differences in wing color and body size, as shown in Table 1.
Which of the following best explains the cause of the phenotypic variation observed in the butterflies?
There was differential gene expression of wing color and body size in response to the colors of light the caterpillars were exposed to.

Scientists have found that DNA methylation suppresses crossing-over in the fungus Ascobolus immersus. Which of the following questions is most appropriately raised by this specific observation?
Is the level of genetic variation in the gametes related to the amount of DNA methylation observed?

In sweet pea plants, purple flower color is dominant over red flower color and long pollen grain shape is dominant over round pollen grain shape. Two sweet pea plants that are heterozygous for both flower color and pollen grain shape are crossed with one another. A geneticist is surprised to observe that there are far fewer round, purple offspring and long, red offspring than were predicted by the 9:3 expected phenotypic ratio.
Which of the following statements provides the most reasonable prediction to account for the deviation from the expected results?
In sweet pea plants, the gene for flower color and the gene for pollen grain shape are genetically linked.

Australian dragon lizards have a ZW sex-determination system. The male genotype is homogametic (ZZ), and the female genotype is heterogametic (ZW). However, all eggs incubated at temperatures above 32°C tend to develop into females.
Which of the following best explains how the development of phenotypic female Australian dragon lizards with a ZZ genotype occurs when incubation temperatures are above32°C?
Incubation temperatures above 32°C inhibit the genes on the Z chromosome that produce proteins necessary for male development.

Insulin is a hormone produced by some pancreatic cells. Scientists have isolated the DNA sequence that codes for human insulin production.
Which of the following best predicts the effect of inserting this gene into the DNA of a bacterial cell?
The recombinant bacterium will produce human insulin using its own transcription and translation machinery.

During prophase II replicated homologous chromosomes pair up and undergo synapsis. What testable question is generated regarding synapsis and genetic variability by Figure 1 ?
Is the distance between two gene loci related to crossover rate?

If 2n=48 for a particular cell, then the chromosome number in each cell after meiosis would be?
24

Both mitosis and meiosis begin with a parent cell that is diploid. Describe how daughter cells of mitosis and meiosis have daughter cells with different numbers of chromosomes.
Mitosis produces two identical diploid daughter cells after round one of division. Meiosis produces four haploid daughter cells after two rounds of division.

Which of the following statements correctly describes the chromosomes in each daughter cell at the end of meiosis II? (in a 2n=24 organism)
Each daughter cell contains 12 chromatids. Each chromatid is one of two from a single chromosome with the other one of the pair found in the other daughter cell.

Which of the following best describes the cells that result from the process of meiosis in mammals?
They are genetically different from the parent cell.

...
Crossing over

Within a forest ecosystem, there is a large amount of diversity among members of a warbler species. Of the following stages of meiosis illustrated for a typical cell, which contributes most to diversity among the warblers?
Metaphase I (two homologous chromosomes are lined up in the center).

A couple has 5 children, all sons. If the woman gives birth to a sixth child, what is the probability that the sixth child will be a son?
1/2

A blue-flowered African violet of unknown ancestry self-pollinated and produced 50 seeds. These seeds germinate and grow into flowering plants. Of these plants, 36 produce blue flowers and 14 produce pink flowers. What is the best explanation for the pink-flowered offspring?
Pink flower color is a trait recessive to the blue flower color.

Assume that two genes A and B are not linked. If the probability of allele A in a gamete is 1/2 and the probability of allele B in a gamete is 1/2, then the probability that both A and B are in the same gamete is what probability?
1/2 x 1/2

Insulin is a hormone produced by some pancreatic cells. Scientists have isolated the DNA sequence that codes for human insulin production. Which of the following best predicts the effect of inserting this gene into the DNA of a bacterial cell?
The recombinant bacterium will produce human insulin using its own transcription and translation machinery.

In humans, red-green color blindness is a sex-linked recessive trait. If a man and a woman produce a color-blind son, what must be true about the child's mother?
The mother carries the allele for color blindness.

In sheep, eye color is controlled by a single gene with two alleles. When a homozygous brown-eyed sheep is crossed with a homozygous green-eyed sheep, blue-eyed offspring are produced. If the blue-eyed sheep are mated with each other, what percent of their offspring will most likely have brown eyes?
25%

Be able to identify a trisomy from a karyotype image.
XXY= Klinefelter Syndrome , 3 in chromosome 21= Down Syndrome

The diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true? Diagram shows Klinefelter Syndrome
(If klinefelter syndrome, or male with 2 X chromosomes isn't an answer then its:) The diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation.

Chi Squared Question. A student crosses a pure-breeding line of red-flowered poinsettias with a pure-breeding line of white-flowered poinsettias. The student observes that all the plants in the F1 generation have pink flowers. The student then crosses the F1 plants with one another and records observations about the plants in the F2 generation. The student will use the F2 data to perform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for a model of incomplete dominance. The setup for the students chi-square goodness-of-fit test is presented in Table 1. Red flowers observed= 64 expected= 56. Pink flowers observed= 107 expected= 112. White flowers observed= 53 expected= 56. (p=0.05 and 2 degrees of freedom is 5.99).
The calculated chi-square value is 1.53, and the null hypothesis cannot be rejected. Remember to find chi-square use (o-e)^2/e.

What is nondisjunction? Give some examples.
Occurs when chromosomes don't separate properly during cell division. This produces cells with imbalanced chromosome numbers. Ex: Down syndrome, Klinefelter's syndrome.

An African violet grower observes that genetically identical African violet plants growing near the walls of the greenhouse have white flowers, that plants growing farther away from the walls have pale blue flowers, and that plants growing nearest the center of the greenhouse have dark blue flowers. Which of the following best explains the differences in flower color of the African violets in the greenhouse?
An enzyme responsible for flower color does not fold correctly in cooler temperatures, and the greenhouse is warmest in the center.

Australian dragon lizards have a ZW sex-determination system. The male genotype is homogametic (ZZ), and the female genotype is heterogametic (ZW). However, all eggs incubated at temperatures above 32 degrees celsius tend to develop into females. Which of the following best explains how the development of phenotypic female Australian dragon lizards with a ZZ genotype occurs when incubation temperatures are above 32 degrees celsius?
Incubation temperatures above 32 degrees celsius inhibit the genes on the Z chromosome that produce proteins necessary for male development.

Scientists have found that DNA methylation suppresses crossing-over in the fungus Ascobolus immersus. Which of the following questions is most appropriately raised by this specific observation?
Is the level of genetic variation in the gametes related to the amount of DNA methylation observed?

A model showing two possible arrangements of chromosomes during meiosis is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following questions about genetic diversity could most appropriately be answered by analysis of the model in Figure 1?
How does the independent assortment of the two sets of homologous chromosomes increase genetic diversity?

Talks about stickleback with 3:1 ratio, how a single gene is thought to be responsible for the variation in the number of armor plates in stickleback. Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the results of the breeding experiment?
The completely-plated phenotype is controlled by a dominant allele of a single gene.

A spermatocyte produces the following four sperm cells: n+1, n+1,n-1,n-1. These cells are the result of nondisjunction during which of the following phases?
Meiosis I

Female red pigeons cross 1=11, cross 2=9, cross 3=7. Male brown pigeons: cross 1=9, cross 2=11, cross 3=13. Which of the following is the mean number of male offspring produced by the three crosses?
11

Phenotype of adult butterfly: wing color and body size. Caterpillars exposed to red light had a darker wing color and smaller body size. Caterpillars exposed to blue light had a lighter wing color and larger body size. Which of the following best explains the cause of the phenotype variation observed in the butterflies?
There was differential gene expression of wing color and body size in response to the colors of light the caterpillars were exposed to.

A completely-plated stickleback from a marine population was mated to a low-plated stickleback from a freshwater population. The resulting F1 hybrids all displayed a completely plated phenotype...
B: The completely-plated phenotype is controlled by a dominant allele of a single gene

In the pedigree above, circles represent females and squares are males, and shaded figures represent individuals expressing a specific trait. The expression of this trait is most likely due to which of the following?
D: Autosomal recessive inheritance.

All of the following are true statements about meiosis in mammals EXCEPT
E: It produces 4 genetically identical gametes

A gene that influences coat color in domestic cats is located on the x chromosome. A female cat that is heterozygous for the gene has a calico colored coat....In a genetics experiment...The researchers calculate a chi square value of 4.6 and choose a significance level of p=0.05. Which of the following statements best completes the chi square goodness of fit test?
D: the null hypothesis cannot be rejected because the chi square value is less than the critical value.

Butterflies of the genus Colias live in the
Rocky Mountains, where they experience a wide
range of temperatures. Different variants of a
particular glycolytic enzyme in the flight muscles
are optimally active at different temperatures.
Within the same population, some individual
butterflies fly most effectively at 29 C° , while
others fly most effectively at 40°C. Still others
can be equally active at both temperatures.

Which of the following claims is most consistent
with the observed butterfly behavior?
A: butterflies that express 2 variants of the enzyme are active over a greater range of temperature.

The diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true?
C: The diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation.

In sweet pea plants, purple flower color is dominant over red flower color and long pollen grain shape is dominant over round pollen grain shape...a geneticist is surprised to observe that there are far fewer...than the expected 9:3:3:1 ratio...which of the following statements provides the most reasonable prediction to account for deviation from the expected results?
A: In sweet pea plants, the gene for flower color and the gene for pollen grain shape are genetically linked.

A model showing two possible arrangements of chromosomes during meiosis are shown...Which of the following question about genetic diversity could most appropriately be answered by analysis of the model?
C: How does the independent assortment of the two sets of homologous chromosomes increase genetic diversity?

Pigeons demonstrate ZW sex determination, such that ZZ genotype produces a male and a ZW genotype produces a female...Which of the following is the mean number of male offspring produced by the 3 crosses?
D: 9


Original
What kinds of molecules pass through the lipid bilayer of the cell membrane most easily?
small and hydrophobic

If you examine side A after three days, you should find
A decrease in the concentration of NaCl and a decrease in the water level

The value for water potential in root tissue was found to be 2.0 megapascal. If you place the root tissue in a 0.05 M solution of sucrose at 10C in an open beaker what is the water potential of the solution?
-1.18 Bars

Which of the following is one of the ways that the membranes of winter wheat are able to remain fluid when it is extremely cold?
by increasing the percentage of unsaturated phospholipids in the membrane

An animal cell lacking chains of glucose on the external surface of its plasma membrane would likely be impaired by which function?
cell-cell recognition

A patient has had a serious accident and lost a lot of blood. In an attempt to replenish body fluid distilled water, equal to the volume of the blood lost, is transferred directly into one of his veins. What will be the most probable result of his transfusion?
The patient's red blood cells will swell because the blood fluid is hypotonic compared to the cells.

Glucose diffuses slowly through artificial phospholipid bilayers. The cells lining the small intestine, however, rapidly move large quantities of glucose from the glucose-rich food into their glucose-poor cytoplasm. Using this information, which transport mechanism is most probably functioning in the intestinal cells?
Facilitated diffusion

White blood cells engulf bacteria through what process?
Phagcytosis

For this pair of items, choose the option that best describes their relationship.
Item (A) is less than item (B)

Five dialysis bags, constructed from a semipermeable membrane that is impermeable to sucrose, were filled with various concentrations of sucrose and then placed in separate beakers containing an initial concentration of 0.6 M sucrose solution. At 10-minute intervals, the bags were massed (weighed) and the percent change in mass of each bag was graphed.
Which line or lines in the graph represent(s) bags with the highest initial concentration of sucrose?
The top most line on the graph (A)

A young animal has never had much energy. He is brought to a vet for help and is sent to an animal hospital for tests. There they discover his mitochondria can only use fatty acids and amino acids fro respiration and he cells produce more lactate than normal. Of the following, which is the best explanation of his condition?
His mitochondria lack the transport protein that moves pyruvate across the outer mitochondrial membrane.

In chloroplasts, ATP is synthesized from ADP plus inorganic phosphate (Pi) in a reaction catalyzed by ATP synthase molecules that are embedded in the thylakoid membrane. Which of the following statements provides evidence to support the claim that no ATP will be synthesized in the absence of a proton gradient across the thylakoid membrane?
No ATP is synthesized when channel proteins that allow the free passage of protons are inserted into the thylakoid membrane.

One function of both alcohol fermentation and lactic acid fermentation is to
oxidize NADH to NAD+

To test the hypothesis that a particular plant synthesizes storage lipids by using glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (G3P) from photosynthesis, a researcher plans to use radio labeled precursors to track the molecules through the biosynthetic pathway. Which of the following radio labeled precursors os the most appropriate for the researcher to use?
14C-labeled CO2 because atmospheric carbon is fixed to carbohydrates by photosynthesis.

Which of the following statements describe the result of this reaction?
6CO2+6H2O+ Light energy -> C6H12O6+6O2
CO2 is reduced and H2O is oxidized

Some photosynthetic organisms contain chloroplasts that lack photosystem II, yet are able to survive. The best way to detect the lack of photosystem II in these organisms would be
to test for liberation of O2 in the light

Which of the following statements best describes the relationship between photosynthesis and respiration?
Photosynthesis stores energy in complex organic molecules, while respiration releases it.

Which of the following is an important difference between light dependent and light independent reactions of photosynthesis?
The light dependent reactions produce ATP and NADPH; the light independent reactions use energy stored in ATP and NADPH

In a protein complex for the light reaction (a reaction center), energy is transferred from pigment molecule to pigment molecule, to a special chlorophyll a molecule, and eventually to the primary electron acceptor. Why does this occur?
The molecular environment lets it boost an electron to a higher energy level and also to transfer the electron to another molecule

The sugar that results from three "turns" of the Calvin cycle is glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). Which of the following is a consequence of this?
The formation of starch in plants involves assembling many G3P molecules, with or without further rearrangements

An experiment to measure the rate of respiration in crickets and mice at 10 degrees C and 25 degrees C was performed using a respirometer, an apparatus that measures changes in gas volumes. Respiration was measured in mL of O2 consumed per gram of organism over several five minute trials, and the following data were obtained.
The mice at 10 degrees C had a higher rate of ATP production than mice at 25 degrees C

A scientist claims that Elysia chlorotica, a species of sea slug, is capable of photosynthesis. Which of the following observations provides the best evidence to support the claim?
Elysia chlorotica grows when exposed to light in the absence of other food sources

Which statement describes the functioning of photosystem 2?
The electron vacancies in P680 are filled by electrons derived from water

The free energy for the oxidation of glucose to CO2 and water is -686 kcal/mole and the free energy for the reduction of NAD+ to NADH is +53 kcal/mole. Why are only two molecules of NADH formed during glycolysis when it appears that as many as a dozen could be formed?
Most of the free energy available from the oxidation of glucose remains pyruvate, one of the products of glycolysis

During oxidative phosphorylation, H2O is formed. Where does the oxygen for the synthesis of the water come from?
molecular oxygen (O2)

For each molecule of glucose that is metabolized by glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, what is the total number of NADH + FADH2 molecules produced?
12

Cyanide binds with at least one molecule involved in producing ATP. If a cell is exposed to cyanide, most of the cyanide would be found within the
Mitochondria

Tay-Sachs disease is a human genetic abnormality that results in cell accumulation and becoming clogged with very large and complex lipids. Which cellular organelle must be involved in this condition?
Lysosomes

All of the following are part of the prokaryotic cell except
an endoplasmic reticulum

Which of the following produces and modifies polysaccharides that will be secreted?
Golgi apparatus

Under which of the following conditions would you expect to find a cell with a predominance of free ribosomes?
a cell that is secreting protiens

A higher surface-to-volume ratio (SA:V) is more efficient for cells. Cells that are smaller in size can diffuse necessary materials across the cell at a much faster rate than larger cells. The length of a cell measures .10mm, width is .20mm, and the height is .75mm. Calculate the surface-to-volume ratio for this cell.
43 mm

The liver is involved in detoxification of many poisons and drugs. Which of the following structures is primarily involved in this process and therefore abundant in liver cells?
smooth ER

The value for water potential in root tissue was found to be -0.15 MPa. If you take the root tissue and place it in a 0.1 M solution of sucrose (water potential= -0.23), net water flow would
be from the tissue into the sucrose solution

A plant cell with a solute potential of -0.65 MPa maintains a constant volume when bathed in solution that has a solute potential of -0.30 MPa and is in an open container. The cell has a
Pressure potential of +0.35 MPa

The surface area-to-volume ratio of cells determines how quickly they can absorb materials. Suppose that a space mission to Planet Zognard-42 uncovers giant cube-shaped single celled organisms living in an oxygen atmosphere. One species of cube shaped organisms is 2 cm on each side. Another is 1 cm on each side. About how much faster will the smaller cube organism be able to absorb oxygen?
2 times

Why is glycolysis described as having an investment phase and a payoff phase?
It uses stored ATP and the forms a net increase in ATP

One function of both alcohol fermentation and lactic acid fermentation is to
oxidize NADH to NAD+

Which of the following combinations of products would result from three turns of the citric acid cycle?
3 ATP, 6 CO2, 9 NADH, 3 FADH2

In the presence of oxygen, the three-carbon compound pyruvate can be catabolized in the citric acid cycle. First, however, the pyruvate 1) loses a carbon, which is given off as a molecule of CO2, 2) is oxidized to form a two-carbon compound, and 3) is bonded to coenzyme A.
These three steps result in the formation of
acetyl CoA, NADH, H+, and CO2

In addition to ATP, what are the end products of glycolysis?
NADH and pyruvate

Which of the following statements describes the results of this reaction?
C6H12O6 + 6O2 --> 6CO2 + 6H2O + energy
C6H12O6 is oxidized and O2 is reduced

The oxygen consumed during cellular respiration is involved directly in which process or event?
accepting electrons at the end of the electron transport chain

substrate-level phosphorylation accounts for approximately what percentage of the ATP formed during glycolysis?
100%

Carbon dioxide (CO2) is released during which of the following stages of cellular respiration?
Oxidation of pyruvate to acetyl CoA and the citric acid cycle

Assume a mitochondrion contains 58 NADH and 20 FADH2. If each of the 77 dinucleotides were used, approximately how many ATP molecules could be generated as a result of oxidative phosphorylation (chemiosmosis)?
175

Recall that the complete oxidation of a mole of glucose releases 686 kcal of energy (ΔG = -686 kcal/mol). The phosphorylation of ADP to form ATP stores approximately 7.3 kcal per mole of ATP. What is the approximate efficiency of cellular respiration for a "mutant" organism that produces only 24 moles of ATP for every mole of glucose oxidized, rather than the usual 36-38 moles of ATP?
25%

An organism is discovered that consumes a considerable amount of sugar, yet does not gain much weight when denied air. Curiously, the consumption of sugar increases as air is removed from the organism's environment, but the organism seems to thrive even in the absence of air. When returned to normal air, the organism does fine. Which of the following best describes the organism?
It is a facilitative anaerobe

Which of the following is true concerning cancer cells?
A, B, and C
A) They do not exhibit density- dependent inhibition when growing in culture
B) When they stop dividing, they do so at random points in the cell cycle
C) They are not subject to cell cycle controls

Researchers studying cell cycle regulations in budding yeast have observed that a mutation in the CDC15 gene causes cell cycle arrest in telophase when the yeast calls are incubated at an elevated temperature. Which of the following statements best predicts the effect of the cell cycle arrest on proliferating yeast cells?
The yeast cells will replicate their chromosomes but will fail to complete cytokinesis.

A cell containing 92 chromatids at metaphase of mitosis would, at its completion, produce two nuclei each containing how many chromosomes?
46

A particular cyclin called cyclin E forms a complex with a cyclin-dependent kinase called Cdk 2. This complex is important for the progression of the cell from G1 into the S phase of the cell cycle. Which of the following statements is correct?
The amount of cyclin E is highest during G1

An inhibitor of which of the following could be used to block the release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum?
phospholipase C

Cancer can result from a variety of different mutational events. Which of the following is LEAST likely to result in the initiation of a cancerous tumor?
A defect in a cell-cycle checkpoint prevents a cell from entering the S phase

The epinephrine signaling pathway plays a role in regulating glucose homeostasis in muscle cells. The signaling pathway is activated by the binding of epinephrine to the beta- 2 adrenergic receptor. A simplified model of the epinephrine pathway is represented in figure 1.
The intracellular concentration of glycogen will increase

Which of the following would be inhibited by a drug that specifically blocks the addition of phosphate groups to proteins?
phosphatase activity

An inhibitor of phosphodiesterase activity would have which of the following effects?
prolong the effect of epinephrine by maintaining elevated cAMP levels in the cytoplasm

A major group of G protein linked receptors contain seven transmembrane alpha helices. The amino end of the protein lies at the exterior of the plasma membrane. Loops of amino acids connect the helices either at the exterior face or on the cystosol face of the membrane. the loop on the cytosol side between helices 5 and 6 is usually substantially longer than others.
where would you expect to find the carboxyl end?
At the cytosol surface

A researcher examining a root tip observes a plant cell with condensed sister chromatids, kinetochores with attached microtubules and individual chromosomes that are aligned at the equatorial plate of the cell. Which of the following best describes what the next process will be in the cell?
Paired chromatids will separate, and the new daughter chromosomes will move toward opposite poles of the cell

How do the daughter cells at the end of mitosis and cytokinesis compare with their parent cell when it was in G1 of the cell cycle?
The daughter cells have the same number of chromosomes and the same amount of DNA

The data were obtained from a study of the length of time spent in each phase of the cell cycle by cells of 3 eukaryotic organisms designated beta, delta, and gamma.
The best conclusion concerning delta is that the cells
Are actually in the G0 phase

Human caspases can be activated by
irreparable DNA damage or protein misfolding

A group of researchers cultured yeast cells in a nutrient rich environment and a nutrient poor environment and observed the duration of the stages of the cell cycles. The results of their study are summarized in table 1.
What is the percentage difference in the time spent in mitosis for yeast cells grown in the nutrient rich environment as compared to yeast cells grown in the nutrient poor environment
15%

Mendel's observation of the segregation of alleles in gamete formation has its basis in which of the following phases of cell division?
Anaphase 1 of meiosis

The data were obtained from a study of the length of the spent in each phase of the cell cycle by cells of three eukaryotic organisms designated beta, delta, and gamma. Of the following, the best conclusion concerning the difference between the S phase for beta and gamma is that
Gamma contains more DNA than beta

A student crosses a pure-breeding line of red-flowered poinsettias with a pure-breeding line of white-flowered poinsettias. The student observes that all the plants in the F1 generation have pink flowers. The student then crosses the F1 plant with one another and records observations about the plants in the F2 generation. The student will use the F2 data to preform a chi-square goodness-of-fit test for a model of incomplete dominance. The setup for the student's chi-square goodness-of-fit test is presented In table 1. Which of the following statements best completes the student's chi-square goodness-of-fit test?
The calculated chi-square value is 1.53 and the critical value is 7.81. The null hypothesis cannot be rejected.

Both mitosis and meiosis begin with a parent cell that is diploid. Which of the following best describes how mitosis and meiosis result in daughter cells with different numbers of chromosomes?
Mitosis produces two identical diploid daughter cells after one round of division. Meiosis produces four haploid daughter cells after two rounds of division.

How do cells at the completion of meiosis compare with cells that have replicated their DNA and are just about to begin meiosis?
They have half the number of chromosome and one-fourth the amount of DNA

Within a forest ecosystem, there is a large amount of diversity among members of a warbler species. Of the following stages of meiosis illustrated for a typical cell, which contributes most to diversity among the warblers?

How many unique gametes could be produced through independent assortment by an individual with the genotype AaBbCCDdEEFFggHH?
8

1. Formation of four new nuclei, each with half the chromosomes present in the parental nucleus
2. Alignment of tetrads at the metaphase plate
3. Separation of sister chromatids
4. Separation of the homologs; no uncoupling of the centromere
5. Synapsis; chromosomes moving to the middle of the cell in pairs

From the description above, which of the following is the order that most logically illustrates a sequence of meiosis?
5,2,4,3,1

Given the parents AABBCc × AabbCc, assume simple dominance for each trait and independent assortment.

What proportion of the progeny will be expected to phenotypically resemble the first parent?
3/4

Table 1 shows the stages and number of cell and chromosomes per cell at the end of the stages in a 2n=24.

Which of the following statements correctly describes the chromosomes in each daughter cell at the end of meiosis 1?
each daughter cell contains 12 chromosomes, each composed of two chromatids. Each chromosome is one of a pair of homologous chromosomes from the parent cell, with the other homologue found in the other daughter cell

Radish flowers may be red, purple, or white. A cross between a red-flowered plant and a white-flowered plant yields all-purple offspring. The part of the radish we eat may be oval or long, with long being the dominant characteristic.

In the F2 generation of the above cross, which of the following phenotypic ratios would be expected?
6:3:3:2:1:1

Skin color in a certain species of fish is inherited via a single gene with four different alleles. One fish of this type has alleles 1 and 3 (S1,S3) and its mate has alleles 2 and 4 (S2, S4).

If each allele confers a unit of color darkness such that S1 has one unit, S2 has two units, and so on, then what proportion of their offspring would be expected to have five units of color?
1/2

Gene S controls the sharpness of spines in a type of cactus. Cactuses with the dominant allele, S, have sharp spines, whereas homozygous recessive ss cactuses have dull spines. At the same time, a second gene, N, determines whether or not cactuses have spines. Homozygous recessive nn cactuses have no spines at all.

If doubly heterozygous SsNn cactuses were allowed to self-pollinate, the offspring would segregate in which of the following ratios?
I^A iRr

In peas the trait for tall plants is dominant (T) and the trait for short plants is recessive (t). The trait for yellow seed color is dominant (Y) and the trait for the green seed is recessive (y). A cross between two plants results in 296 tall yellow plants and 104 tall green plants.

Which of the following are most likely to be the genotypes of the parents?
TtYy * TTYy

The tiny blue-eyed Mary flower is often one of the first flowers seen in the spring in some regions of the United States. The flower is normally blue, but sometimes a white or pink flower variation is found.

Which of the following statements best explains the data?
Flower color is an inherited trait, and the F1 ans F2 phenotypes of the flowers arising from the pink and white cross can best be explained by another gene product influences the phenotypic expression.

An incomplete dominant gene controls the color of chickens so that BB produces black, Bb produces a slate-gray color called blue, and bb produces splashed white. A second gene controls comb shaped, with the dominant gene R producing a rose comb and r producing a single comb. what fraction of the offspring in the F2 generation will be rose with single comb?
1/16

A man who has achondroplasia and is color-blind marries a woman with achondroplasia and normal vision. The woman's mother was color blind and her father was a dwarf. The man's parents were both pure-breeding dwarfs. Achondroplastic dwarfism is autosomal dominant, and red-green color blindness is X-linked recessive.

What proportion of their sons would be color-blind dwarfs?
.50

The following question refer to the pedigree chart in figure 14.2 for a family, some of whose members exhibit the trait of wooly hair.

What is the genotype of individual II-4
ww

Pigeons demonstrate ZW sex determination, such that a ZZ genotype produces a male and a ZW genotype produces a female. The gene for feather color is located on the Z chromosome, and the red allele is dominant over the brown allele. Three crosses between brown male pigeons and red female pigeons were performed, and the results are shown below.

Which of the following is the mean number of female offspring produced by the three crosses?
11

What fraction of the time will the cross of AaBbCc with AaBbCc produce an offspring that expresses the genotype aabbCc
1/32

The relative location of four genes on a chromosome can be mapped from the following data on crossover frequencies

Which of the following represents the relative positions of these four genes on the chromosome?
CABD

A male fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) with red eyes and long wings was massed with a female with purple eyes and vestigial wings. All of the offspring in the F1 generation had red eyes and long wings. These F1 flies were test crossed with purple-eyed, vestigial-winged flies. Their offspring, the F2 generation appeared as indicated below.

In the F2 generation, the results are best explained by the fact that
these genes for eye color and wing shape are found on the same chromosome.

Eye pigment in a particular strain of fly is determined by two genes. An autosomal gene that controls the color of the pigments in the eye has two alleles: a dominant allele (R) that results in red eyes and a recessive allele(r) that results in sepia eyes. A sex- linked gene controls the expression of the colored pigments also has two alleles: a dominant allele (T) that allows for expression of the colored pigments and a recessive allele (t) that does not allow for expression of the colored pigments and results in white eyes.

Which of the following represents a cross between a red-eyed female and a white-eyed make?
none

In humans, male-pattern baldness is controlled by an autosomal gene that occurs in two allelic forms. Allele Hn determines nonbaldness, and allele Hb determines pattern baldness. In males, because of the presence of testosterone, allele Hb is dominant over Hn. If a man and woman both with genotype HnHb have a son, what is the chance that he will not go bald?
25%

The leading and the lagging strands differ in that
the leading strand is synthesized in the same direction as the movement of the replication fork, and the lagging strand is synthesized in the opposite direction

At a specific area of a chromosome, the sequence of nucleotides below is presented where the chains opens to form a replication fork: 5' CCTAACG(T)CGGATCC 3'

An RNA primer is formed starting at the underlined T (T) of the template. Which of the following represents the primer sequence?
5' ACGUUAGG 3'

If a DNA sample were composed of 10% thymine, what would be the percentage of guanine?
40

Which of the following statements about the 5' end of a polynucleotide strand of DNA is correct?
The 5' end has a phosphate group attached to the number 5 carbon of deoxyribose.

Which of the following removes the RNA nucleotides from the primer and adds equivalent DNA nucleiotides to the 3' end of Okazaki fragments?
DNA polymerase 1

Which of the following correctly explains where DNA replication will begin on the strand oriented 5' to 3', reading from left to right?
DNA replication will be initiated immediately to the left of RNA, since DNA polymerase requires an RNA primer

A biochemist isolates, purifies, and combines in a test tube a variety of molecules needed for DNA replication. When she adds some DNA to the mixture, replication occurs, but each DNA molecule consists of a normal strand paired with numerous segments of DNA a few hundred nucleotides long. What has she probably left out of the mixture?
ligase

Which of the following best describes the complete sequence of steps occurring during every cycle of PCR?
1. The primers hybridize to the target DNA
2. The mixture is heated to a high temperature to denature the double stranded target DNA
3. Fresh DNA polymerase is added
4. DNA polymerase extends the primers to make a copy of the target DNA
2,1,4

You briefly expose bacteria undergoing DNA replication to radioactively labeled nucleotides. When you centrifuge the DNA isolated from the bacteria, the DNA separates into two classes. One class of labeled DNA includes very large molecules (thousands or even millions of nucleotides long), and the other includes short stretches of DNA (several hundred to a few thousand nucleotides in length). These two classes of DNA probably represent
Leading strands and Okazaki fragments

DNAase is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the covalent bonds that join nucleotides together. What would first happen to DNA molecules treated with DNAase?
The phosphodiester bonds between deoxoribose sugars would be broken

If one strand of a DNA molecule has the sequence of bases 5'ATTGCA3', the other complementary strand would have the sequence
3' TAACGT5'

The segment of DNA shown in Figure 20.2 has restriction sites 1 and 2, which creates restriction fragments A,B, and C. Which of the gels produced by electrophoresis shown below best represents the separation and identity of these fragments?
- C_______A___B +

Which of the following are probably siblings?
C and D

For this pair of items, choose the option that best describes their relationship.
(A) The number of purines in the DNA strand 5' AAGAGGAGAAA 3'
(B) The number of pyrimidines in the DNA strand 5' AAGAGGAGAAA 3'
Item (A) is greater than item (B)

Which of the following statements best summarizes the structural differences between DNA and RNA?
DNA is a double helix, but RNA is single stranded and DNA contains the nitrogenous base thymine, which is replaced by uracil in RNA

Which of the following molecules is a purine type of nitrogenous base?
13

Suppose an experimenter becomes proficient with a technique that allows her to move DNA sequences within a prokaryotic genome.

If she moves the repressor gene (lac 1), along with its promoter, to a position at some several thousand base pairs away from its normal position, which will you expect to occur?
the lac operon will function normally

If she moves the operator to the far end of the operon (past the transacetylase gene), which of the following would likely occur when the cell is exposed to lactose?
the structural genes will be transcribed continuously

In prokaryotes, most of the control of gene expression is at the __________ level.
transcriptional

The positive control of the lactose operon in bacteria is
activated by a protein known as CAP

Repressor proteins
prevent binding of RNA polymerase to DNA, can be inactivated by an inducer such as lactose, and provide negative control

A mutation that inactivates the regulatory gene of a repressible operon in an E coli. cell would result in
continuous transcription of the structural gene controlled by that regulator

If glucose is available in the environment of E. coli, the cell responds with a very low concentration of cAMP. When the cAMP increases in concentration, it binds to CAP. Which of the following would you expect to be a measurable effect?
decreased concentration of alternative sugars in the cell

For a responsible operon to be transcribed which of the following must occur
RNA polymerase must bind to the promoter, and the repressor must be inactive

The lac operon in E. coli consists of genes that code for enzymes necessary for the breakdown of lactose. When lactose is absent, the operon is inactive because a repressor protein binds to a specific site in the lac operon. When lactose os present, lactose molecules bind to the repressor protein, causing the repressor protein to dissociate from the binding site. In the absence of glucose (a preferred energy source for bacteria). the protein CAP binds to a regulatory site near the lac promoter to activate transcription of the lac operon.

In the diagram below, the horizontal line represents the lac operon and the bent arrow represents the transcription start site of the lac operon. Which of the diagrams best represents the scenario in which lactose is available to the cell and glucose is absent?
mRNA binds to RNA polymerase
Lactose binds to the repressor

The lactose operon is likely to be transcribed when
the cyclic AMP and lactose levels are both high within the cell

The tryptophan operon is a repressible operon that is
turned off whenever tryptophan is added to the growth medium

Which of the following can best be used to justify why the GFP is expressed by E coli. cells after transformation with the plasmid?
The presence of arabinose in the nutrient agar activated the expression of the genes located downstream of the ara operon regulatory sequences

How does active CAP induce expression of the genes of the lactose operon?
It stimulates the binding of RNA polymerase to the promoter

Allolactose induces the synthesis of the enzyme lactase. An E. coli cell is presented for the first time with the sugar lactose (containing allolactose) as a potential food source. Which of the following occurs when the lactose enters the cell?
Allolactose binds to the repressor protein

A mutation in this section of DNA could influence the binding of RNA polymerase to the DNA:
promoter

An African violet grower observes that genetically identical African violet plants growing near the walls of the greenhouse have white flowers, that plants growing farther away from the walls have pale blue flowers, and that plants growing nearest the center of the greenhouse have dark blue flowers.
Which of the following best explains the differences in flower color of the African violets in the greenhouse?
An enzyme responsible for flower color does not fold correctly in cooler temperatures, and the greenhouse is warmest in the center

Scientists have found that DNA methylation suppresses crossing-over in the fungus Ascobolus immersus. Which of the following questions is most appropriately raised by this specific observation?
Is the level of genetic variation in the gametes related to the amount of DNADNA methylation observed?

Which of the following statements correctly describes the chromosomes in each daughter cell at the end of meiosis I?
Each daughter cell contains 12 chromosomes, each composed of two chromatids. Each chromosome is one of a pair of homologous chromosomes from the parent cell, with the other homologue found in the other daughter cell.

Both mitosis and meiosis begin with a parent cell that is diploid. Which of the following best describes how mitosis and meiosis result in daughter cells with different numbers of chromosomes?
Mitosis produces two identical diploid daughter cells after one round of division. Meiosis produces four haploid daughter cells after two rounds of division

If the normal spermatogenesis is disrupted, the gametes can have different chromosomes than expected. Which of the following is the most likely cause of one of the four gametes having two X chromosomes and one having neither an X nor a Y chromosome?
Nondisjunction of the XX chromosome during meiosis II

Australian dragon lizards have a ZW sex-determination system. The male genotype is homogametic (ZZ), and the female genotype is heterogametic (ZW). However, all eggs incubated at temperatures above 32°C tend to develop into females.
Which of the following best explains how the development of phenotypic female Australian dragon lizards with a ZZ genotype occurs when incubation temperatures are above 32°C?
Incubation temperatures above 32°C32°C inhibit the genes on the ZZ chromosome that produce proteins necessary for male development

Genetic engineering techniques can be used when analyzing and manipulating DNA and RNA. Scientists used gel electrophoresis to study transcription of gene L and discovered that mRNA strands of three different lengths are consistently produced.
Which of the following explanations best accounts for this experimental result?
Pre-mRNAmRNA of gene LL is subject to alternative splicing, so three mRNAmRNA sequences are possible

Which of the following correctly explains where DNA replication will begin on the strand oriented 5'→3', reading from left to right?
DNADNA replication will be initiated immediately to the left of the RNARNA, since DNADNA polymerase requires an RNARNA primer

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
D (the one with multiple arrows on the top going left, one big arrow on the bottom going right)

Iron is an essential nutrient that is acquired by organisms from the environment. When intracellular levels of iron are relatively high, living cells synthesize an iron-storage protein called ferritin.

The induction of ferritin synthesis by iron was investigated in rats. Figure 1 shows the results of an experiment in which cellular levels of ferritin protein were measured in the presence or absence of iron and actinomycin D, a drug that inhibits transcription.

Figure 2 shows the results of an experiment in which cellular levels of ferritin protein were measured in the presence or absence of iron and cycloheximide, a drug that inhibits translation.

The data can best be used to support which of the following claims about the mechanism for regulating ferritin gene expression?
Iron increases ribosome binding to ferritin mRNA.

Antibiotics can be used to kill the specific pathogenic bacterium, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, that causes tuberculosis. The appearance of antibiotic-resistant strains has made it more difficult to cure M. tuberculosis infections. These antibiotic-resistant bacteria survive and pass on the genes to their offspring, making the resistant phenotype more common in the population.
DNA analysis indicates that the genes for antibiotic resistance are not normally present in bacterial chromosomal DNA.
Which of the following statements best explains how the genes for antibiotic resistance can be transmitted between bacteria without the exchange of bacterial chromosomal DNA?
The genes for antibiotic resistance are located on a plasmid that can be passed to neighboring bacteria.

During the infection cycle for a typical retrovirus, such as HIV, which uses RNA as genetic material, the genetic variation in the resulting population of new virus particles is very high because of
recombination of the genomes of free virus particles

The first diagram below shows the levels of mRNA from two different genes (bicoid and caudal) at different positions along the anterior-posterior axis of a Drosophila egg immediately before fertilization. The second diagram shows the levels of the two corresponding proteins along the anterior-posterior axis shortly after fertilization.
Which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data?
Bicoid protein inhibits translation of caudal mRNA.

Figure 1 shows some relevant details of a model of how a deoxynucleotide, in this case dTMP, is added to a growing strand of DNA.
Figure 1. Model showing details of adding a deoxythymidine monophosphate (dTMP) nucleotide to a growing strand of DNA
The features of this model provide evidence for which explanation of why all growing strands are synthesized in a 5′ to 3′ direction?
The phosphate group, attached to the 5′ carbon of the dTMP, forms a covalent bond with the oxygen atom attached to the 3′ carbon of the growing strand.

As represented in Figure 1 and Figure 2, the phenotypic difference between marine and freshwater sticklebacks involves Pitx1, a gene that influences the formation of the jaw, pituitary gland, and pelvic spine. Enhancer sequences upstream of the Pitx1 genetic locus regulate expression of the Pitx1 gene at the appropriate times and in the appropriate tissues during development. Previous studies have found that a mutation in the hindlimb enhancer interferes with the formation of a pronounced pelvic spine.
A mutation that affects Pitx1 gene function in all tissue types is most likely to be at which of the following genetic loci?
Promoter

The CFTR protein is made up of 1,4801,480 amino acids linked together in a chain. Some humans produce a version of the CFTR protein in which phenylalanine (an amino acid) has been deleted from position 508 of the amino acid chain.
Which of the following best predicts how the amino acid deletion will affect the structure of the CFTR protein?
It will affect the primary, secondary, and tertiary structures of the CFTR protein.

Antigens are foreign proteins that invade the systems of organisms. Vaccines function by stimulating an organism's immune system to develop antibodies against a particular antigen. Developing a vaccine involves producing an antigen that can be introduced into the organism being vaccinated and which will trigger an immune response without causing the disease associated with the antigen. Certain strains of bacteria can be used to produce antigens used in vaccines.
Which of the following best explains how bacteria can be genetically engineered to produce a desired antigen?
The gene coding for the antigen can be inserted into plasmids that can be used to transform the bacteria.

The functions of the loci of the lac operon shown in the diagram are described in the table below. The diagram above represents a segment of the E. coli chromosome that contains the lacI gene and part of the lac operon, a coordinately regulated set of genes that are required for the metabolism of lactose. The presence of lactose, which causes the repressor to be released from the operator, results in increased transcription of the lac operon.
Bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GFP?
Bacteria growing in the presence of lactose will fluoresce under ultraviolet light.

The diagram above represents a segment of the E. coli chromosome that contains the lacI gene and part of the lac operon, a coordinately regulated set of genes that are required for the metabolism of lactose. The presence of lactose, which causes the repressor to be released from the operator, results in increased transcription of the lac operon.
Which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
Expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted.

Students subjected three samples of five different molecules to gel electrophoresis as shown in Figure 1. Which of the following statements best explains the pattern seen on the gel with regard to the size and charge of molecules A and B?
Molecules AA and BB are negatively charged, and molecule AA is smaller than molecule BB.

In a transformation experiment, a sample of E. coli bacteria was mixed with a plasmid containing the gene for resistance to the antibiotic ampicillin (ampr). Plasmid was not added to a second sample. Samples were plated on nutrient agar plates, some of which were supplemented with the antibiotic ampicillin. The results of E. coli growth are summarized below. The shaded area represents extensive growth of bacteria; dots represent individual colonies of bacteria.
In a second experiment, the plasmid contained the gene for human insulin as well as the ampr gene. Which of the following plates would have the highest percentage of bacteria that are expected to produce insulin?
IV only

The enzyme lactase aids in the digestion of lactose, a sugar found in the milk of most mammals. In most mammal species, adults do not produce lactase. Continuing to produce lactase into adulthood in people is called lactase persistence. A number of different alleles have been identified that result in lactase persistence. Figure 1 shows the percentage of people in different geographic areas parts of the Old World that exhibit lactase persistence.

Which of the following best explains the distribution of lactase persistence in the areas shown in Figure 1 ?
Mutations conferring lactase persistence likely arose independently in different geographic areas and offered a selective advantage.

Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme β-galactosidase. The gene encoding β-galactosidase, lacZ, is part of a coordinately regulated operon containing other genes required for lactose utilization.
Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized? (The legend below defines the shapes of the molecules illustrated in the options.)
...

Both liver cells and lens cells have the genes for making the proteins albumin and crystalline. However, only liver cells express the blood protein albumin and only lens cells express crystalline, the main protein in the lens of the eye. Both of these genes have enhancer sequences associated with them.
The claim that gene regulation results in differential gene expression and influences cellular products (albumin or crystalline) is best supported by evidence in which of the following statements?
Liver cells possess transcriptional activators that are different from those of lens cells.

Phytochromes are molecules that change light stimuli into chemical signals, and they are thought to target light-activated genes in plants. A study was conducted to determine how certain cell proteins were made in a plant cell using a phytochrome. Figures 1 and 2 represent findings from the study.

Use the response models shown in Figures 1 and 2 to justify the claim that phytochromes regulate the transcription of genes leading to the production of certain cellular proteins.
When inactive phytochrome PrPr is activated by red light to become phytochrome PfrPfr, it is transported into the nucleus where it binds to the transcription factor PIF3PIF3 at the promoter. This stimulates transcription, ultimately leading to protein production. Far-red light inactivates the phytochrome, which will turn transcription off by not binding to PIF3PIF3.

Figure 1 illustrates processes related to control of transcription and translation in a cell.

Figure 1. Model of a relationship between a transcription factor and selected genes

Which of the following scientific claims is most consistent with the information provided in Figure 1 ?
Different genes may be regulated by the same transcription factor.

Sickle-cell anemia is an inherited blood disorder in which one of the hemoglobin subunits is replaced with a different form of hemoglobin. Partial DNA sequences of the HBB gene for normal hemoglobin and for sickle-cell hemoglobin are shown in Figure 1.

Which of the following best describes the type of mutation shown in Figure 1 that leads to sickle-cell anemia?
Substitution

Which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown above?
Both processes increase genetic variation.

Which of the following is most likely to create genetic variation in a population?
DNA polymerase errors during replication

the food web represented above does not include bacteria and fungi. whcih of the following best describes a consequence of having no bacteria and fungi in the food web?
grasses will have no direct access to chemical components recycled from dead organisms

the following DNA sequence is a small part of the coding (nontemplate) strand from the open reading fram of the B-hemoglobin gene. Given the codon chart listed below, what would be the effect of a mutation that deletes the G at the beginning of the DNA sequence?
the reading frame of the sequence would shift, causeing a change in the amino acid sequence after that point

which of the following questions might scientists ask to most reliably determin if there has ever been life on Mars?
did Mars have elements present in its atmosphere to support life?

Cortisol is a hormone produced in response to stress, including starvation, in humans. Which of the following is most likely an immediate effect of a starvation induced increase in cortisol secretion?
increased mobilization of gatty acids from fat cells

which of the following is the most likely consequence of adding ciproflozacin to animal feed?
ciprofloxacin resistant strains of C. jejuni will have a selective advantage in the digestive tracts of livestock, increasing the risk of serious infection in people

the table above shows derived characters for selected organisms. Based on the information in the table, which of the following cladograms best represents the evolutionary relationships among the organisms?
Fish breaks off first

damaged tissue releases chemicals that activate platelets and stimulate the formation of blood clots. WHich of the following predictions about the activity of platelets best describes a positive feedback mechanism?
activated platelets release chemicals that activate more platelets

based on the results of the experiment, which of the following types of molecules did the bacteriophages most likely inject into the bacteria cells?
DNA

which of the following conclusions is best supported by the results of the experiment?
neither population grows as large when cultured together as each does when cultured separately

the difference in carrying capacity between the two species when cultured separately is closests to which of the following values?
350 individuals per 5.0 mL

which of the following statements best justifies th euse of the experimental results in an investigation of interspecies competition?
when two populations use the same sources of energy, resource availability in a shared environment limits the growth of both populations

if the mixed populations were cultured for an additional 25days, which of the following predictions would be consistent with the data?
one population would stabilize at a large size, and the other population would be eliminated from the culture

based on the experimental results, which of the following statements best describes the relationship of the two populations that were studies in the investigation?
the populations have a competitive relationship in which each species limits the ability of the other to reproduce

Percent of moths recaptured in two different environments which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
dark colored moths were more likely to be recaptured in the polluted environment than in the unpolluted environment, suggesting an increased chance of reproductive success

which of the following question about the origin of life on Earth is most scientifically testable?
can simple organic molecules form spontaneously in an oxygen free atmosphere

a microelectrode is inserted into a neruon. A voltage recorder then measure the voltage difference between the microelectrode inside the cell and an electrode placed outside the cell. Which of the following plots most accurately represents the changes in membrane protential throughout a single action potential?
positive graph with bumps going up and down

the diagram above depicts a karyotype of an individual human. Which of the following statements concerning the karyotype in the diagram is true
the diagram illustrates the results of nondisjunction during gamete formation

the graph above represents the proportions of hatchlings of certain types of reptiles that are male at different egg incubation temperatures. Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
the expression of sex determination genes in certain reptiles is influenced by temperature

which of the following modifications to the experimental design would improve the reliability of the results presented in figure 1
measuring blood glucose levels in a group of mice that were not given STZ

which of the following conclusions is best supported by the data presented in figure 1
implanted hESC-B cells are effective at regulating blood glucose levels in the absence of mouse B-cells

based on the data in figure 2, which of the following best justifies the researchers' claim that hESC-B implants can functionally replace the mouse's naturally occurring B-cells?
the mouse with an hESC-b implant successfully regulated blodd glucose levels after STZ treatment but not after the implant was removed

in contrast to type 1 diabetes, where ther is no insulin production, type 2 diabetes is characterized by a failture of body cells to respond normally to insulin. Based on the results of the experiment, which of the following best predicts the effectiveness of unsing hESC-B implantation to treat type 2 diabetes?
the treatment would fail because insulin produced by implanted hESC-B cells will not stimulate glucose uptake by body cells

based on the data, which of the following best represents how the mice with the implanted hESC-B cells use negative feedback to return blood glucose levels to normal ig blood glucose levels increase?
increased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells --> increased glucose uptake by body cells --> decreased insulin secretion by hESC-B cells

as represented in the moel above, B cells are activated by direct contact with antigens or stimulated helper T cells (Th) Based on the model, which of the following best describes an outcome of B cell activation?
activated B cells differentiate into plasma cells and memory cells

a student analyzed a viral genome and found that the genome had the following nucleotide composition. which of the following best describes the structure of the viral genome?
single stranded DNA

which of the following communities is likely to be most stable?
one with high species diversity

which of the following is true about the structure of the prokaryotic cell represented in the figure?
it has a cell wall exterior to the plasma membrane and contains ribosomes

some blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom have become distinguishable by certain physical and behavioral traits from blackcaps that migrate to Spain. Which of the following best predicts the effect on the blackcap population if humans in the United Kingdom continue to place food in feeders during the winter?
the blackcaps that migrate to the United Kingdom will become reproductively isolated from the blackcaps that migrate to Spain, resulting in speciation in the blackcap population

which of the following is the most likely consequence of a mutation at the operator locus that prevents binding of the repressor protein?
beta-galactosidase will be produced, even in the absence of lactose

which of the following describes the most likely consequence of a negative feedback pathway involving the lac operon?
expression of the lac operon diminishes as lactose is depleted

which of the following best explains the contribution of the lac operon to the metabolic efficiency of a bacterial cell?
the lacZ gene is highly expressed only when lactose is available

bacterial cells that contain green fluorescent protein (GFP) will fluoresce under ultraviolet light. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of replacing the lacZ gene in the E. coli lac operon with the gene encoding GRP?
beta galactosidase will be made only when bacteria are cultured under ultraviolet light

which of the following predics the most likely outcome of moving a population of guppies from a pool with pike cichilids to a pool with killifish?
after many generations, the offspring of the introduced guppies will mature at an older age and larger size because of selective pressure from the new predator

which of the following questions will best direct an investigation of the mechanism of ATP synthase?
is the phosphorylation of ADP by ATP synthase dependent on the formation of a proton gradient?

the figure above represents a rough endoplasmic reticulum. Which of the following best describes the role of the structure labeled Y?
Structure Y is the location where proteins are synthesized

in a sample of 2,400 people, 1,482 were found to have the dominant (taster) phenotype. assuming that the population is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, approximatelt how many individuals in the sample are expected to be heterozygous for TAS2R38
1,133

which of the following scientific questions will best help researchers determine when the nontaster allele arose in the evolutionary history of the selected primates?
does the nontaster allele exiset in any nonhuman primate populations?

NUCLEOTIDE VARIATION IN THE TAS2R38 - which of the following conclusions is supported by the data
Bonobos are more closely related to humans than to gorillas because bonobos and humans share a more recent common ancestor than bonobos and gorillas do

The TAS2R38 receptor protein has been detected on the surface of cells from individuals who are homozygous for the nontaster allele of TAS2R38 gene. Which of the following is the most likely effect of the mutations associated with the nontaster allele on TAS2R38 gene expression
the mutations change the primary structure of the encoded receptor protein

Which of the following best describe the likely evolution of the TAS2R38 locus in the gorilla population?
gorillas who could taste bitter toxins were more likely to survive and reproduce than nontasters

for each ion or molecule, the relative concentration on each side of the membran is indicated. Which of the following accurately describes one of the movements taking place?
Na+ transport out of the cell requires ATP hydrolysis

which of the following best describes how myelination affects the transmission of nerve impulses?
it speeds up the transmission of impulses by acting as an electrical insulator

which of the following is the best plan for collecting data to use in a test of the hypothesis?
examining the upper part of the lower rock layer for evidence of a catastrophic event, such as the presence of shocked quartz, iridium, or soot particles

which of the following statements best predicts the effect of increased cottonwood growth on the food web?
increased cottonwood growth will provide more resources for cicadas, resulting in an increase in the kestrel population

based upon the data, which of the following best describes the effect on the timing of cicada emergence if the cottonwood ground cover decreases from 50 percent to 25 percent
cicadas will emerge approximately 10 days earlier

based on the data, which of the following describes the most likely relationship between wildfires, soil temperature, and the timing of cicada emergence in the same year?
wildfires caused a reduction in ground cover, which in turn caused increased soil temperatures leading to earlier emergence of cicadas

yellow billed cuckoos typically hatch in mid July. Emerging cicadas are a primary food source for nesting cuckoos. Which of the following best predicts the effect of wildfires on yellow billed cuckoo populations?
the yellow billed cuckoo population will decline because the cicadas will emerge before the hatching season begins

the data from the temperature controlled experimental plots can best be used to support which of the following conclusions about cicada dvelopment?
cicada nymphs mature to adults faster in warmer soil than in cooler soil

the table above shows the types and properties of nitrogen containing wastes produced by several vertebrates. Which of the following is the best evolutionary explanation of the data?
ammonia secretion requires a large volume of water and was therefore selected against in terrestrial vertebrate

the figure above shows an organelle typically found in eukaryotic cells. Which of the following best describes the function of the double membrane system of this organelle?
the inner membrane has specialized proteins that create a hydrogen ion concentration gradient between the intermembrane space and the matrix

which of the following best describes an event during step 2 in the simplified model above?
noncoding sequences are removed from a newly synthesized RNA molecule

which of the following correctly compares the two processes shown above?
both processes increase genetic variation

based on the model, which of the following mutations is most likely to result in a cell that will generate a cancerous tumor?
a mutation in the gene encoding G-PIP that results in a nonfunctional protein

Figure 1 illustrates a model of the molecules involved in DNA replication and their placement relative to each other.
DNA replication will be initiated immediately to the left of the RNA , since DNA polymerase requires an RNA primer.

Which of the following best explains why a shortened protein is produced?
The mutation introduces a premature stop codon, causing translation to end early.

Erwin Chargaff investigated the nucleotide composition of DNA . He analyzed DNA from various organisms and measured the relative amounts of adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T) present in the DNA of each organism. Table 1 contains a selected data set of his results.
Which of the following statements best explains the data set?
Since the %C and the %G are approximately the same in each sample, cytosine and guanine molecules must pair up in a double-stranded DNA molecule.

When analyzing the amino acids and DNA sequences of two rats, a scientist determined that there was more genetic variability than there were differences in amino acids sequences. How can this phenomenon be explained?
NOT
DNA sequencing is more reliable that protein sequencing.

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
arrows out on top side, long arrow in on bottom side

Accuracy in the translation of mRNA into the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide depennds on specificity in which of the following?
bonding of the anticodon to the codon and the attachment of amino acids to tRNAs

Researchers studying new viruses analyzed the genetic material found in four different virus samples to determine the percent nitrogen base composition of each virus. The data are shown in the table.
BASE DISTRIBUTION IN FOUR NUCLEIC ACID SAMPLES
Which of the following samples most likely contains a double-stranded RNA virus?
Sample 1

Antibiotics interfere with prokaryotic cell functions. Streptomycin is an antibiotic that affects the small ribosomal subunit in prokaryotes. Specifically, streptomycin interferes with the proper binding of tRNA to mRNA in prokaryotic ribosomes. Which of the following best predicts the most direct effect of exposing prokaryotic cells to streptomycin?
Synthesis of polypeptides will be inhibited.

A cow can help make human insulin by modifying the expression of certain genes. Which of the following is the basis of this process.
Transcription and translation are fundamentally similar in both cows and humans.

There are several enzymes involved during DNA replication. Which enzyme is used place the start primer on the so that the new base pairs can be added?
NOT
DNA polymerase

A model that represents a process occurring in a cell of a particular organism is shown in Figure 1. Which of the following correctly explains the process shown in Figure 1 ?
NOT
Alternative splicing of mRNA is occurring because the mRNA strand is being synthesized from only one strand of DNA .

In eukaryotic cells, transcription cannot begin until
several transcription factors have bound to the promoter.

Which of the following DNA strands will code for the amino acid sequence shown above?
APPARENTLY ITS NOT
CCTTCGCCT

Based on the universal genetic code, which of the following represents the correct polypeptide that will result from translation of the mRNA molecule shown, beginning with the first available start codon?
NOT
Asp-Arg-Met-Val-Thr-Lys-Phe-Gly-His

Which of the following best explains the process represented by Figure 1 ?
NOT
The synthesis of mRNA in the 5' to 3' direction from DNA

A scientist adds a chemical to a culture of dividing cells in order to disrupt DNA replication. The replicated DNA produced by the cells is double-stranded, but sections of it lack covalent bonds between adjacent nucleotides (Figure 1).
Which of the following claims is best supported by the data?
NOT
The chemical blocks DNA polymerase.

Which of the following best explains what process is represented in Figure 1 ?
New DNA strands are being synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction from their DNA templates.

Nuclear pores regulate the passage of substances into and out of the nucleus. Antibodies such as mAb414 have been used to inhibit the movement of substances through the nuclear pores of rat liver cells. Scientists cultured rat liver cells (eukaryotic) and bacteria cells (prokaryotic) in separate dishes with radioactively labeled amino acids. A specific gene in both cell types was engineered to synthesize identical polypeptide chains, and translation of this gene was measured. The procedure was repeated with mAb414 (the inhibitor) added to each of the two cell cultures, and translation was monitored again. Which of the following sets of graphs best summarizes the results of the experiments?
IDK SORRYYY

Beta thalassemia is a disorder caused by mutations in the HBB gene. Examination of the HBB protein in an individual with beta thalassemia shows that the protein is missing many amino acids at its carboxyl terminus. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for how a mutation in the DNA could result in the loss of the carboxyl terminus of the HBB protein?
NOT
The mutation changes the promoter sequence of the gene such that different transcription factors initiate transcription of the gene.

If a segment of DNA is 5'-TAC GAT CTA CGA-3', the RNA that results from the transcription of this segment will be
3'-AUG CUA GAU GCU-5'

Sickle-cell anemia results from a point mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation results in the replacement of an amino acid that has a hydrophilic R-group with an amino acid that has a hydrophobic R-group on the exterior of the hemoglobin protein. Such a mutation would most likely result in altered
properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules

Which of the following best describes the physiological significance of the different oxygen-binding capabilities of hemoglobin and myoglobin?
They enhance movement of oxygen from the blood into the muscles.

The synthesis of protein or carbohydrate polymers always produces which of the following as a byproduct
water

4 ypes biological molecules
lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, and protiens

biologicals molecues are made up of..
monomers. (the letters to make up the word)

why are lipids different?
Only made up of one monomer. generally non-polare but can be polar?

nuecleic acids examples
DNA and RNA

building block of nuecleic acids are nucliotides
they are made up of sugar, a phospate group, and a nitrougous base

building blocks of proteins
amino acids

sugars are monomers of carbohydrates
true

carohydrate building blocks
sugars

polymers are made up of monomers
true

dehydration synthesis
A chemical reaction in which two molecules covalently bond to each other with the removal of a water molecule

hydrolisis reaction
A hydrolisis reaction involves the addition of water (H2O) to a disaccharide or polysaccharide in order to turn back into a monosaccharide.

nucleic acids formation
phosphate groupe attached to a sugar group attached to a base

RNA
cytosine, guanine, adenine, and uricil

DNA
cytosine, guanine adenine, and thymine

how many amino acids make up a protein
20 amino acids

amino acid formation
an amino group (h-n-h) and a carboxyl groupe (o=c-oh) connected to h-c-r

What is the R in a Amino acid (AA) called? (protein)
the side group/chain which makes them all different

lipids mzake ______ inside us
membanes.

hydrocarbon tails
make up lipids (cholesterol, phospholipids, triglycerides)

Lipids are hydrophobic or hydrophilic?
hydrophobic

phospholipids are polar and nonpolar
yes.

Saturated fat at room temperature
solid

unsaturated fat at room temp
liquid

what does carbohydrates provide us?
energy and structure.

what are carbohydrates building blocks
sugars

two types of inhibition
competitive(blocks activ sites) and allosteric(changes shape)

what does the active site do in an exzyme
this is where the substrate can fit into the enzyme

Which of the following people conducted the experiments that demonstrated that DNA is the genetic material of bacteriophages?
B. Hershey and Chase

The monomers of DNA and RNA are
C. Nucleotides

How would the shape of a DNA molecule change if adenine paired with guanine and cytosine paired with thymine?
A. The DNA molecule would have irregular widths along its length

Which of the following statements regarding a DNA double helix is always true?
B. The amount of adenine is equal to the amount of thymine, and the amount of guanine is equal to the amount of cytosine

DNA replication
B. Uses each strand of a DNA molecule as a template for the creation of a new strand

When one DNA molecule is copied to make two DNA molecules, the new DNA contains
D. 50% of the parent DNA

Multiple origins of replication on the DNA molecules of eukaryotic cells serve to
A. Shorten the time necessary for DNA replication

The transfer of genetic information from DNA to RNA is called
D. Transcription

Which of the following options best depicts the flow of information when a gene directs the synthesis of a cellular component?
D. DNA --> RNA --> Protein

We would expect that a 15-nucleotide sequence ending with a stop codon will direct the production of a polypeptide that consists of
B. 4 Amino Acids

Which of the following enzymes catalyzes the linking together of RNA nucleotides to form RNA?
C. RNA Pol II

Which of the following occurs when RNA polymerase attaches to the promoter DNA?
C. Initiation of a new RNA molecule

______ marks the end of a gene and causes transcription to stop
A. A terminator

Where do transcription and translation occur in prokaryotic cells?
C. In the cytoplasm

Which of the following statements about eukaryotic RNA is true?
B. Exons are spliced together

Which of the following takes place during translation?
C. The conversion of genetic information from the language of nucleic acids to the language of proteins

Which of the following is a function of a tRNA molecule?
B. Transferring nucleotides to rRNA

Which of the following is not needed in order for translation to occur?
A. DNA template

Which of the following statements is false?
A. An mRNA molecule transcribed from DNA is shorter than the genetic message it carries

Consider the following sentence: "The dog did not eat." Which of the following variations of this sentence is most like a base substitution mutation?
A. The doe did not eat

In the 1920s, Frederick Griffith conducted an experiment in which he mixed the dead cells of a bacterial strain that can cause pneumonia with live cells of a bacterial strain that cannot...Which of the following processes of bacterial DNA transfer does this experiment demonstrate?
A. Transformation

What nucleotide sequence would be found on the partner DNA strand of the strand shown?
C. TGACA

If the left end of the daughter strand indicated in the figure (see arrow) is being synthesized in one continuous piece, then
C. The DNA at point C is being synthesized in one continuous piece

A gene operon consists of
D. Transcribed genes, an operator, and a promoter

In a prokaryote, a group of genes with related functions, along with their associated control sequences, defines
A. An operon

The lac operon in E. coli
C. Prevents lactose-utilizing enzymes from being expressed when lactose is absent from the environment

The lac operon of E. coli is _____ when the repressor is bound to lactose
A. Active

The expression of the tryptophan operon is controlled by
D. A repressor that is active when it binds to tryptophan

The relationship between DNA and chromosomes is most like
C. Thread wrapped around a spool

Enhancers are
D. DNA sequences to which activator proteins bind

RNA splicing involves the
A. Removal of introns from the molecule

The coding regions of a gene (the portions that are expressed as polypeptide sequences) are called
C. Exons

A homeotic gene
D. Serves as a master control gene that functions during embryonic development by controlling the developmental fate of groups of cells

Transcription factors attach to
C. DNA

In this drawing of the lac operon, which molecule is an inactive repressor?
D. Molecule D

Which structure in this figure shows one complete nucleosome?
D. Structure D

Why don't the grafted hybrids produce apples with a blend of traits from the scion and the rootstock?
B. The rootstock regulates gene expression in the scion, but contributes no genetic information for fruit production

Half the trees in an orchard were derived from rootstock "A" and half from rootstock "B," but all the trees had the same scion. If the trees grafted onto rootstock "A" were infected by a parasite that causes blossom rot, the trees grafted onto rootstock B
B. Would be very likely to become infected, because the remaining scions are genetically identical to those that are already infected

Using radioactive tracers (shown below) to determine the interactions of bacteriophages and their hose bacteria, Hershey and Chase demonstrated without question that
D. DNA is the molecule that stores genetic information in the cells

Refer to the illustration below. Where on the lac operon does transcription take place?
C. Gene (z)

Refer to the illustration above. To which portion of the lac operon does the repressor bind?
B. Operator (o)

The function of the operator is to?
A. Regulate access of RNA polymerase to specific genes

Refer to the illustration below. What is the portion of the protein molecule coded for by the piece of mRNA that is: CUCAAGUCCUUC
C. Leu-Lys-Ser-Phe

The enzymes responsible for adding nucleotides to the exposed DNA template bases during replication are
B. DNA Polymerases

The enzymes that unwind DNA are called
B. DNA Helicases

During translation elongation tRNAs enter the ribosome through what channel?
A. A channel

Which of the following best describes the term "nonsense suppression"?
B. Mutant tRNAs (that are bound to an amino acid) contain an anti-codon that can bind to the stop codon. This results in the ribosome continuing to translate past stop codons.

Translation is associated with which cellular structure in eukaryotes?
B. Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum

Proteins are further modified by the addition of sugar residues in which compartment?
C. Goldi Apparatus

The D-Pax2 gene encodes a transcription factor that is crucial for specifying the four lens secreting non-neuronal cone cells... How will the pattern and/or level of D-Pax2 expression be affected if the binding sites for any of these DNA binding proteins are disrupted?
A. D-Pax2 expression will be completely eliminated from the developing cone cells

During the process of transcription, sequence specific transcription factors interact with which of the following types of enzymes?
D. All the above

Which of the following provides the best explanation for why a methylated guanine and a poly-A-tail are added to the 5' and 3' ends of the mRNA transcript respectively?
D. B and C

Which of the following is an incorrect statement regarding the structure of enhancers?
D. Enhancer elements are only located upstream and near the transcriptional start site in eukaryotes

Which of the following best describes the effect of DNA methylation?
B. Transcriptional Repression

Which of the following elements are removed from the mRNA transcript during RNA splicing?
B. Intron sequences

Which of the following statements regarding introns is incorrect?
C. Each eukaryotic gene will contain at least one intron

The splicing machinery does not recognize which of the following elements?
C. 5' UTR

Which of the following mediates the interactions between splicing proteins and mRNA transcripts?
D. Splicing proteins are recruited to the splice sites within the mRNA through recognition of methylated RNA nucleotides

The following is a list of introns of varying sizes: Intron I - 5kb, Intron II - 10kb, Intron III - 20kb, Intron IV - 100kb. Which one is most likely to undergo alternative splicing?
D. Intron IV

Which of the following is a true statement regarding alternate splicing?
A. Alternate splicing allows for an increase in protein diversity through the differential use of exons while maintaining a small genome

Where would a predicted silent mutation have to be located to actually result in a loss-of-function mutation (and potentially lead to the onset of disease)?
A. Intron-exon junction/splice site

Which of the following is a true statement regarding RNA?
E. All of the above

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
D.

Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme b-galactosidase...Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is not being utilized?
D.

Which of the following is best supported by the data?
C. Translation of bicoid mRNA produces caudal protein

Plates that have only ampicillin-resistant bacteria growing include which of the following?
C. IV only

Which of the following best explains why there is no growth on plate II?
A. The initial E. Coli culture was not ampicillin-resistant

Plates I and III were included in the experiment design in order to
A. Demonstrate that the E. Coli cultures were viable

In a second experiment, the plasmid contained the gene for human insulin as well as the ampr gene. Which of the following plates would have the highest percentage of bacteria that are expected to produce insulin?
C. IV only

Although identical twins inherit exact copies of the same genes, the twins may look and act differently from each other because
B. Gene expression may be affected by epigenetic factors that influence protein production

Of the mutation types below, which one is least likely to affect the function of the protein corresponding to the gene where the mutation occurs?
B. Base-pair substitution

Which three codons would code for a different amino acid sequence from that coded for by the mRNA base sequence AGU-UCA-CCA?
C. AGC-UCA-CUU

Which of the following can best be used to justify why the GFP is expressed by E. Coli cells after transformation with the plasmid?
A. The presence of arabinose in the nutrient agar activated the expression o the genes located downstream of the ara operon regulatory sequences

Arrange the steps of DNA replication on the lagging strand in order with the earliest steps first
C. 3, 5, 4, 2, 1

Enzyme used in the synthesis of mRNA
RNA Polymerase

Enzyme found in retroviruses that produce DNA from an RNA template
E. Reverse Transcriptase

Enzyme used during replication to attach/seal Okazaki fragments to each other
A. DNA Ligase

Enzyme used to position nucleotides during DNA Replication
B. DNA Polymerase

A deletion of one base pair that alters the sequence of codonsis called a
B. Point Mutation

An operon consists of
B. An operator, a promoter, and structural gene, repressor

A mutation that causes premature completion of protein synthesis due to a substitution error is known as
C. Nonsense Mutations

What is the function of DNA Ligase in recombinant technology?
E. Link together newly joined fragments of DNA

Lactose digestion in E. coli begins with its hydrolysis by the enzyme b-galactosidase. The gene encoding b-galactosidase, lacZ, is part of a coordinately regulated operon containing other genes required for lactose utilization.
Which of the following figures correctly depicts the interactions at the lac operon when lactose is NOT being utilized? (The legend below defines the shapes of the molecules illustrated in the options.)
repressor protein

The sequence for two short fragments of DNA are shown above. Which of the following is one way in which these two segments would differ?
Segment 1 would be denatured at a lower temp than Segment 2 b/c A-T base pairs have 2 hydrogen bonds.

When DNA replicates, each strand of the original DNA molecule
is used as a template for the synthesis of a second, complementary
strand. Which of the following figures most accurately illustrates
enzyme-mediated synthesis of new DNA at a replication fork?
question 3: arrows out on top side, long arrow in on bottom side

sickle-cell anemia results from a point mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation results in the replacement of an amino acid that has a hydrophilic R-group with an amino acid that has a hydrophilic R-group on the EXTERIOR of the hemoglobin protein. Such a mutation would most likely result in altered
properties of the molecule as a result of abnormal interactions between adjacent hemoglobin molecules

Which of the following can best be used to justify why the GFP is expressed by E. coli cells after transformation
with the plasmid?
The presence of arabinose in the nutrient agar activated the expression of the genes located downstream of
the ara operon regulatory sequences.

Which of the following statements is true about protein synthesis in prokaryotes?
Translation can begin while transcription is still in progress.

Which point mutation would be most likely to have a catastrophic effect on the functioning of a protein?
a base deletion near the start of the gene

A frameshift mutation could result from
either an insertion or a deletion of a base.

When translating secretory or membrane proteins, ribosomes are directed to the ER membrane by
a signal-recognition particle that brings ribosomes to a receptor protein in the ER membrane.

As a ribosome translocates along an mRNA molecule by one codon, which of the following occurs?
The tRNA that was in the A site moves into the P site

Which of the following helps to stabilize mRNA by inhibiting its degradation?
5' cap and poly A tail

Transcription in eukaryotes requires which of the following in addition to RNA polymerase?
several transcription factors (TFs)

A possible sequence of nucleotides in the template strand of DNA that would code for the polypeptide sequence phe-leu-ile-val would be
3' AAA-GAA-TAA-CAA 5'

Using RNA as a template for protein synthesis instead of translating proteins directly
from the DNA is advantageous for the cell because
RNA acts as an expendable copy of the genetic material

According to Beadle and Tatum's hypothesis, how many genes are necessary for this pathway?
2

A biochemist isolates and purifies various molecules needed for DNA replication. When she adds some DNA, replication occurs, but the DNA molecules formed are defective. Each consists of a normal DNA strand paired with numerous segments of DNA a few hundred nucleotides long. What has she probably left out of the mixture?
DNA Ligase

The leading and the lagging strands differ in that
the leading strand is synthesized in the same direction as the movement of the replication fork, and the lagging strand is synthesized in the opposite direction

Cytosine makes up 38% of the nucleotides in a sample of DNA from and organism. Aprox. what % will be thymine?
12

the following represents the steps of dna replication. put them in order
III, I, II, IV, V

In a second experiment, the plasmid contained the gene for human insulin as well as the ampr
gene. Which of the following plates would
have the highest percentage of bacteria that are expected to produce insulin?
IV only

Plates that have only ampicillin-resistant bacteria growing include
which of the following?
IV only

Which of the following best explains why there is no growth on plate
II?
The initial E. coli culture was not ampicillin-resistant.

Which of the following statements best explains why there are fewer
colonies on plate IV than on plate III?
Not all E. coli cells are successfully transformed.

plates I and III were included in the experimental design in order to
demonstrate that the E. coli cultures were viable

It is thought that genes exert control in living organisms by
a)Specifying polypeptide chains
b)interacting with proteins in the chromosomes
c)sorting themselves independently in meiosis
d)interacting with enzymes in essential cell reactions
a) specifying polypeptide chains

Which of the following discoveries provides the best evidence fir the beliefe that DNA carries genetic information?
a)The DNA content of cells from the different tissues of an organism is the same
b)The adenine to thymine and guanine to cytosine ratios in DNA are equal to 1
c)heretible transformation of bacterial cells is brought about by DNA
d)DNA is present in chromosomes
c) Heritable transformation of bacterial cells is brought about by DNA

During development, individual cells of the same organism begin to produce different protiens because:
a)the cells have different numbers of chromosomes
b)not all cells can synthesize protiens
c)specific genes are activated in the cells
d)the cells have different kinds and amounts of DNA
c) specific genes are activated in the cells

Actinomycin D is an antibiotic drug that inhibits protien synthesis by blocking transcription. In some cells, the application of the drug does not affect the synthesis of certain protiens. Which of the following best explains such an occurrence?
a)Not al protiens need tRNA molecules for their syntehsis
b)The protiens that are made are using mRNA synthesized before application of the drug.
c)Nuclear protiens do not require the cytoplasmic machinery of ribosomes
d)DNA transcription is not necessary for protien synthesis.
b) the proteins that are made are using mRNA synthesized before application of the drug

According to the Jacob-Monod model of the lac operon, the regulator gene does which of the following?
a) specifies the amino acid sequence of the enzyme
b) controls the activity of histones
c) determines whether promoter genes will be translated
d) directs the synthesis of a repressor protien
d) directs the synthesis of a repressor protien

Prokaryotes differ from eukaryotes in that only the prokaryotes contain:
a) mitochondria in which glucose is oxidized
b) DNA that is not bound to histone protien
c) chromosomes enclosed within a nuclear envelope
d) photosynthetic pigments in plastids
b) DNA that is not bound to histone protein

A single substitution in the third position would have the greatest probablility of mutational effect on the codon:
a) GUU
b) AUU
c) CGU
d) AUG
d) AUG

Which amino acid has the greatest number of codons?
a) Leucine (leu)
b) Proline (pro)
c) Tryptophan (trp)
d) Glutamic Acid (glu)
a) Leucine (leu)

The replacement of glutamic acid by valine at a specific position in the beta chains of hemoglobin leads to sickle cell anemia. This change represents which of the following mutational events?
a) DNA base-pair substitution
b) DNA base-pari deletion
c) DNA base-Pair addition
d) Chromosomal deletion
a) DNA base-pair substitution

GTAGTAGGT
What would be the sequence of bases of an mRNA molecule that was transcribed from the sequence of DNA bases shown above?
a) GTAGTAGGT
b) CAUCAUCCA
c) UCGUCGUUC (D)
d) AUGAUGAAU
b) CAUCAUCCA

In DNA replication, DNA polymerase catalyzes the reaction in which:
a) the double helix unwinds
b) the sugar phosphate bonds of each strand are broken
c) a phosphate group is added to the 3' -carbon or 5' _carbon of ribose
d) a nucleotide with a base complementary to the base on the template strand is added to the new DNA strand
d) a nucleotide with a base complementary to the base on the template strand is added to the new DNA strand

The working of lac operon is important for which of the following reasons?
a) It represents a principle means by which genes are regulated in prokaryotes
b) it represents a principle means by which genes are regulated in eukaryotes
c) It illustrates the complexities of rRNA transcription
d) It provided the first clues to how DNA replication is controlled during the cell cycle
a) it represents a principal means by which genes are regulated in prokaryotes

DNA replication can be described as
a) semiconservative
b) conservative
c) degenerative
d) dispersive
a) semiconservative

Which of the following is a correct statement about mutations?
a) they are a source of variation for evolution
b) they drive evolution by creating mutation pressures
c) they are irreversible
d) they occur in germ cells but not in somatic cells
a) they are a source of variation for evolution

Some geneticists consider the third base of a codon to be less important than the first two bases as a code for a specific amino acid. All of the following observations would support this hypothesis EXCEPT:
a) any of the bases following a CC_ sequence will position a proline
b) even though the A is replaced by a C, the triplet AGG will still position to an arginine
c) even though the last A is replaced by a G, the triplet UAA will still terminate a polypeptide chain
d) an AUU triplet codes for isoleucine, while a UUU triplet codes for phenylalanine
b) Even though A is replaced by a C, the triplet AGG will still position to an arginine

A tobacco plant can be made to express a gene from fireflies, resulting in the emission of light. Which of the following is the basis for this phenomenon?
a) Chloroplasts can be made to produce light if firefly proteins are injected into plant cells
b) Fireflies and tobacco plants share a recent common ancestor
c) Fireflies and tobacco plants are infected by the same kinds of bacteria
d) Transcription and translation are fundamentally similar in both fireflies and tobacco plants
d) Transcription and translation are fundamentally similar in both fireflies and tobacco plants

Gibberellic acid stimulates the cells of germinating grass seeds to produce mNA molecules that code for hydrolytic enzymes. In this case the role of gibberellic acid can best be described as that of
a0 a regulator of gene activity
b) a simulator of hydrolase secretion
c) a simulator of DNA replication
d) an allosteric activator of hydrolase
a) a regulator of gene activity

Analysis of DNA sequences from two individuals of the same species results in a greater estimate of genetic variability than does analysis of amino acid sequences from the same individuals because:
a) different DNA sequences can code for the same amino acid
b) some amino acid variations cannot be detected by protein electrophoresis
c) DNA sequencing is a more reliable technique than protein electrophoresis
d) proteins are more easily damaged than is DNA
a) different DNA sequences can code for the same amino acid

Which of the following messenger RNA sequences could code for both of the two amino acid sequences above, simply by a shift in the reading frame?
a) AGCAGCAGCAGC
b)AGUAGUAGUAGU
c) CAACAACAACAA
d) GCUGCUGCUGCU
a) AGCAGCAGCAGC

Which of the following DNA strands will code for the amino acid sequence shown above?
a) ACTCCTTCT
b) TCTCCGTCG
c) CCTTCGCCT
d) CCTCCGTCG
c) CCTTCGCCT

A reasonable conclusion to draw from the results of the experiment is that:
a) DNA is the genetic material
b) DNA replication is semiconservative
c) DNA is a double helix
d) DNA is translated into protien
a) DNA is the genetic material

What was the purpose of treating the extract with protein-degrading enzymes in Procedure II?
a) to demonstrate that the transforming factor is an enzyme
b) to demonstrate that the transforming factor is not a protein
c) to destroy nucleic acids in the extract
d) to destroy any capsules in the extract
b) to demonstrate that the transforming factor is not a protein

What was the purpose of treating the extract with DNAse in Procedure III?
a) to remove the encapsulated bacteria from the extract
b) to serve as a positive control by demonstrating that a protein in the extract is the transforming factor
c) to serve as a negative control by demonstrating that transformation does not occur without DNA
d) to destroy enzymes in the extract
c) to serve as a negative control by demonstrating that transformation does not occur without DNA

BONUS: The base composition of DNA varies from one species of bacteria to another. Which of the following ratios would you expect to remain constant in the DNA. regardless of the species?
a) pyrimidine + purine/ deoxyribose
b) adenine/ cytosine
c) adenine + cytosine/ deoxyribose
d) Pyrimidine/ ribose
a) pyrimidine + purine/ deoxyribose

BONUS #2: The nitrogenous base, adenine, is found in which three of the following?
a) proteins, chlorophyll, and vitamin A
b) proteins, ATP, and DNA
c) ATP, DNA, and RNA
d) Chlorophyll, ATP, and DNA
c) ATP, DNA, and RNA

BONUS #3: In order for a bacterium to produce a eukaryotic protien, which of the following must first be isolated from a eukaryotic cell prior to cloning?
a) the protiens primary RNA transcript from the nucleus
b) the proteins mRNA from the cytoplasm
c) the protien from the rough endoplasmic reticulum
d) the introns from the segment of DNA that codes for the protien
b) the proteins mRNA from the cytoplasm

The Lac Operon
Regulates transcription by turning on or off the production of a repressor protein

Nucleic Acid
both viruses and prokaryotes contain this

mRNA
carries the code that determines the sequence of monomers in a protein

RNA Nucleotides
Primers that initiate DNA replication consist of these

They can be transferred between bacteria during conjugation
correctly describes plasmids

Small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs)
DNA replication does not require this

A Bacteriophage
A virus that attacks a bacteria

Which of the following is true of the dye used to stain the fragments?
It increases the contrast between Agar and the DNA fragments

GGGCCUUAA
transcription of the DNA sequence CCCGGAATT

An amino acid is related to a protein in the same way as
Glucose is to Starch

Amino Acids
Adenine, a nitrogen base, is not found in this

In an effort to clone a human protein, material from a human cell is introduced into bacteria. Which of the following human materials are needed for this procedure?
the protein's mRNA transcript found in the cytoplasm

During DNA replication, enzymes break the hydrogen bonds between the nucleotide base pairs to unwind the double-helix DNA molecule. What prevents the hydrogen bonds from reforming?
Single-stranded binding proteins (SSBPs)

Which of the following statements concerning a gene is correct?
a gene can code for a specific protein

...glutamine-glutamine-glutamine... ....serine-serine-serine...... Which of the following messenger RNA sequences could code for both of the two amino acid sequences?
...AGCAGCAGCAGC...

glycine-serine-glycine... (1994-116)
Which of the following DNA strands will code for the amino acid sequence above?
CCTTCGCCT

Viruses
There is some evidence that interferon may be effective against certain forms of cancer. This finding suggests that some cancers involve these

Which of the following terms refer to both the movement of a ribosome along a piece of mRNA and the movement of a piece of one chromosome to another chromosome?
Translocation

Certain metabolic pathways are affected by the buildup of a product which interacts with an enzyme catalyzing one of the initial steps of the pathway; this can be an example of
Feedback inhibition

Analysis of DNA sequences from two individuals of the same species results in a greater estimate of genetic variability than does analysis of amino acid sequences from the same individuals because
Different DNA sequences can code for the same amino acid

DNA ligase
Enzyme used during replication to attach Okazaki fragments to each other

DNA polymerase
Enzyme used in synthesis of mRNA

Nucleic Acids
Used to carry the genetic code

DNA is
The genetic material

What was the purpose of treating the extract with DNAse in Procedure III?
To serve as a negative control by demonstrating that transformation does no occur without DNA

The rate of migration of the DNA fragments through the agarose gel is determined by the
Number of nucleotides in the fragment

Lipids
Used for insulation and buoyancy in marine Arctic animals


Original
You are studing an organism and discovered that its genetic information is stored in a circular chromosome. This indicates
Its a prokaryote

More enzymes are involved in the replication of the lagging strand of DNA than the leading strand of DNA because ...
DNA can only be synthesized from the 5' end to the 3' end.

Cytosine and guanine always pair in DNA because ...
They form 3 hydrogen bonds, while adenine-thymine form 2 hydrogen bonds.

Which of the following is not a shared characteristic of both DNA and RNA?
Uracil bases

All of the following statements are true regarding prokaryotic and eukaryotic chromosomes except
Prokaryotic chromosomes undergo replication prior to cell division, eukaryotic chromosomes undergo replication during the mitotic phase.

Which of the following statements regarding transcription in prokaryotes is accurate?
Transcription occurs in the cytoplasm of the cell

Which of the following statements regarding translation in prokaryotes is false
Codons are pairs of nucleotides in a RNA strand

Which of the following statements regarding transcription in eukaryotes is false?
Transcription of the gene is initiated by transcription factors at the promoter region

Which of the following statements regarding translation in eukaryotes is accurate?
Only the exons of the gene are translated into protein

Which of the following is not a shared feature of gene expression in all living organisms?
mRNA splicing occurs prior to translation

Which of the following mutations would be most likely to have a harmful effect on an organism.
A single base insertion near the middle of an exon

A particular cell has half the amount of DNA as other cells in mitotically active tissue. This cell is likely in which phase
Gap 1

Increased Cdk (cyclin-dependent kinase) activity in the cell will likely result in
Increased DNA polymerase activity

If a cell were to undergo mitosis without first passing through the S phase, what would likely result?
Two haploid daughter cells

In some organisms, mitosis occurs without cytokinesis occurring. This will result in...
Cells with more than one nucleus

Which of the following does not increase the genetic variation in a population?
Mitosis

Which of the following correctly distinguishes between mitosis and meiosis
Sister chromatids are separated during anaphase of mitosis but they are separated during anaphase II of meiosis

Non-disjunction is the failure of chromosomes or sister chromatids to separate during meiosis. Which of the following statements is false regarding nondisjunction?
In many instances, nondisjunction results in the spontaneous abortion when the gamete undergoes fertilization

Silent mutations do not affect the structure of the resulting protein. This is best explained by...
Redundancy in the genetic code

Enzyme used during replication to attach Okazaki fragments to each other
DNA ligase

An intervening sequence in a eukaryotic gene is called a/an
Intron

If a segment of DNA is 5' TAC CAT TAG 3', the RNA that results from the transcription of this segment will be
3' AUG GUA AUC 5'

Which of the following terms refers to both the movement of a ribosome along a piece of mRNA and the movement of a piece of one chromosome to another chromosome.
Translocation

Because one original stand of the double stranded helix is found in each daughter cell, the replication process is called
semi conservative

Which of the following statements about DNA replication is not correct
replication occurs as each base is paired with another exactly like it

If a species contains 23% adenine in its DNA, what is the percentage of guanine it would contain?
27%

Which of the classes of RNA molecules carries the genetic information as it is needed for the construction of a protein?
Messenger RNA

Information from X-Ray crystallographic data collected by ______ was used by Watson and Crick in their development of the model of DNA
Franklin

The discontinuous strand during DNA replication
Lagging strand

The proteins on which DNA is wound are called
Histones

All of the following are advantages of sexual reproduction, except:
Energetically costly

Upon completion of _________ the cell has now gone from a diploid cell to a haploid cell occurs during
Meiosis

Crossing over occurs during:
Prophase I

Crossing over involves
All of the above

A cell is haploid after
Anaphase I of meiosis

The two strands of the DNA molecule are connected by
Hydrogen bonds between the bases of one strand and the bases of the second strand

All of the following combinations of nucleotides are examples of normal base pairing except
a thymine RNA nucleotide to an adenine DNA nucleotide

Which of the following is true?
Ribosomes contain RNA nucleotides and amino acids

All of the following enzymes are involved in DNA replication except:
Protoase

The figure above depicts the DNA-protein complex that is assembled at the transcription start site of gene X when the expression of gene X is activated in liver cells. Previous studies have shown that gene X is never expressed in nerve cells. Based on the diagram, which of the following most likely contributes to the specific expression pattern of gene X?
The general transcription factor inhibit the activation of gene X in liver cells y blocking the activator from binding to RNA Polymerase II

Which is most directly responsible for the sequence of amino acids in a protein?
The sequence of codons in mRNA

The universal regulatory mechanism in eukaryotes for controlling gene expression includes
All of the above

Bacteria can be used to synthesize human insulin for diabetic patients. Which of the following correctly illuslates the steps necessary to produce this medication?
Locate the gene using DNA sequencer, remove the gene onto a plasmid, transform bacteria using the plasmid

With what mRNA codon would the tRNA in the diagram to the left be able to form a codon-anticodon base pairing interaction? (UAC)
3' AUG 5'

A small amount of DNA is found at a crime scene. To increase the availability of this DNA for testing technicians will use
Polymerase chain reaction
